I wish you could tell him I saved his brother . Take the money yourself and tell him what I said . I 'm sorry this duke was killed .
Where 's the Earl ?
One of them is in hell already , where she gets poor souls hot . As for the other , I owe her money . If she 's damned for that , I have no idea .
My lord , he wonders why you have assembled such troops of citizens to speak with him , since he had no idea they were coming . My lord , he 's afraid you mean him harm .
Oh , teach me how you look the way you do , and which tricks you used to make Demetrius fall in love with you .
Peace be with us , or else we 'll be even sadder !
Welcome , Ensign Pistol . Here , Pistol . I charge you with a glass of wine . Now discharge on the hostess .
Where is the life I led until recently ? Where are those --Sit down , Kate , make yourself at home . --Come on , come on , come on , come on .
-- toward his own father who loves him so completely . Oh , God ! Edmund , go find him . Gain his confidence for me , please . Manage him however you think best . I 'd give up my rank and fortune to be free from my doubts .
And that 's the end of your assignment . You , constable , are representing the Prince himself . If you meet the Prince in the night , you can order him to stop .
Yes , and the best looking too . And his voice is the paramour of sweetness .
When I strike , I 'll cry , " All or nothing ! "
If I had two of these coins , do you think they 'd breed more coins ?
Come on , " nothing " will get you nothing . Try again .
Very well . What do you want ?
I 'm reading the book I know best -- The Art of Love
That 's a very polite and courteous explanation .
This is beyond weird . What was that thing I saw moving away from you up on the cliff before you fell ?
He 's still half asleep . Let him be for a bit .
You 've always been a liar . But when our vices become habits --Oh , the sadness of it ! -- the wise gods blind us , shade our better judgment , make us love our mistakes , and laugh as we strut to our ruin .
That is a certain truth .
When he stands where I am and sees you there .
Keep on , countrymen . Oh , keep your heads up , even now !
Sometimes we see a cloud that looks like a dragon . Sometimes there 's a cloud like a bear or a lion , a castle , a floating rock , a craggy mountain . Or it might look like a blue cliff with trees on it that bow to the ground . These things fool our eyes by seeming solid , when they are actually only air . You 've seen these illusions . They 're spectacles that appear at sunset .
But for whose sake did I do that sick deed ? For my brother Edward 's sake . He could n't be sending you to murder me for that sin , because he 's the one who asked me to commit it . He is as guilty as I am . If God will be revenged for this deed , he will do it publicly . God does n't need to use indirect or illegal means to kill those who have offended him .
Come with me and let me advise you .
What support did I have other than Edward ? And now he 's gone .
We have slashed the snake but not killed it . It will heal and be as good as new , and we 'll be threatened by its fangs once again . But the universe can fall apart , and heaven and earth crumble , before I 'll eat my meals in fear and spend my nights tossing and turning with these nightmares I 've been having . I 'd rather be dead than endure this endless mental torture and harrowing sleep deprivation . We killed those men and sent them to rest in peace so that we could gain our own peace . Duncan lies in his grave , through with life 's troubles , and he 's sleeping well . We have already done the worst we can do to him with our treason . After that , nothing can hurt him further -- not weapons , poison , rebellion , invasion , or anything else .
I 'm glad . I want to head out tonight .
I 'm going to make you a rich man .
What ? No , no , no , no . What I meant in saying he 's a good man is that he has enough money to guarantee the loan . But his investments are uncertain right now . He has one ship bound for Tripoli , another heading for the Indies . What 's more , people at the Rialto tell me he has a third ship in Mexico , and a fourth in England , as well as other business ventures throughout the world .
No , you should tell him to hold his hands !
Sadly , it 's the king that 's missing . They saw him just now as mad and deranged as the stormy sea , singing loudly , wearing a crown of nettles , thorns , hemlock , and all the other weeds that grow in our cornfields . --Send out a hundred soldiers to find him . Search high and low , in every acre of the fields , and bring him here for me to see him .
To hell with you ! I know what you 'd do .
She 's Phoebe - ing me . Listen to what the tyrant says . " Are you a god disguised as a shepherd , that you know so expertly how to burn my heart ? " Now , honestly , would a woman rant like this ?
And like I am for Ganymede .
And what is the subject ?
She 's a lot like you .
He grabbed me by the wrist and held me hard , then backed away an arm 's length and just looked at me , staring at me like an artist about to paint my picture . He stayed like that a long time .
His beard was gray , right ?
God , not our strength , be praised ! What is the name of the castle that stands over there ?
You wrong me in every way . You wrong me , Brutus . I said an older soldier , not a better one . Did I say " better " ?
You look sleepy . It 's a nice hazy feeling , so give in to it . I know you have no choice .
We need more help ! The devil in him is strong !
What horrible thing are you imagining ?
No one shows mercy because he has to . It just happens , the way gentle rain drops on the ground . Mercy is a double blessing . It blesses the one who gives it and the one who receives it . It 's strongest in the strongest people . It looks better in a king than his own crown looks on him . The king 's scepter represents his earthly power , the symbol of majesty , the focus of royal authority . But mercy is higher than the scepter . It 's enthroned in the hearts of kings , a quality of God himself . Kingly power seems most like God 's power when the king mixes mercy with justice . So although justice is your plea , Jew , consider this .
While I was coming here to tell you my sad news , I heard rumors that many good men are arming themselves to rebel against Macbeth . When I saw Macbeth 's army on the move , I knew the rumors must be true . Now is the time when we need your help . Your presence in Scotland would inspire people to fight . Even the women would fight to rid themselves of Macbeth 's oppression .
If you do n't mind , I 'd like to speak with you .
Go and tell your mistress to strike the bell when my drink is ready . Get yourself to bed .
approval , then we 've been very rude to bother you like this . But if you did n't know about it , then you were wrong to get mad at us . I 'd never play pranks on you . If you did n't allow your daughter to do what she 's doing , then she 's rebelling against you . She 's throwing her life away on some stranger . Go ahead , see for yourself if she 's in her bedroom . If she is , you can sue me for lying to you .
What ? The Prince is a bastard , a sneak . Dammit , if he were here and said something like that , I 'd beat him like a dog .
Okay , just do this , noble Catesby : sound out Lord Hastings , but make it seem as if you 're just mulling over the idea , that it has n't been firmed up yet . Invite him to come to the Tower tomorrow for the coronation ceremony . If he seems game to our plan , encourage him to join us and explain all our reasons . But if he 's resistant and chilly , then be like that too and break off the conversation . Let us know how he responds . Tomorrow we 're going to hold two separate meetings , one for those who are with us and one for those who are n't . You 'll have a lot to do in these meetings .
Well , if Cupid has n't used up all his arrows in Venice , where the courtesans are famous for making men lovesick , he 'll get you to quiver and shake . Just you wait .
But should we only go after Caesar ? No one else ?
Alright , here 's the vial . What if this mixture does n't work at all ? Will I be married tomorrow morning ? No , no , this knife will stop it . Lie down right there . What if the Friar mixed the potion to kill me ? Is he worried that he will be disgraced if I marry Paris after he married me to Romeo ? I 'm afraid that it 's poison . And yet , it should n't be poison because he is a trustworthy holy man . What if , when I am put in the tomb , I wake up before Romeo comes to save me ? That 's a frightening idea . Wo n't I suffocate in the tomb ? There 's no healthy air to breathe in there . Will I die of suffocation before Romeo comes ? Or if I live , I 'll be surrounded by death and darkness . It will be terrible . There will be bones hundreds of years old in that tomb , my ancestors ' bones . Tybalt 's body will be in there , freshly entombed , and his corpse will be rotting . They say that during the night the spirits are in tombs . Oh no , oh no . I 'll wake up and smell awful odors . I 'll hear screams that would drive people crazy .
Where are the noble Hastings , Rivers , Vaughan , Grey ?
The only treason I 'm guilty of is worrying that I 'm never going to get to enjoy you . Treason has nothing at all to do with my love . They 're as opposite as hot and cold .
Master Shallow , are you going to tell me how to choose a soldier ? Do you think I care about a man 's body ,
He 'll woo her or I 'll hang her .
Bring her out , brother . The friar 's ready .
There is , which is what I 've come to tell you . Lord Mortimer of Scotland sent word that Douglas and the English rebels met at Shrewsbury , on the eleventh of this month . If everyone involved keeps their word , they will have an army as enormous and terrifying as any that ever caused trouble in this kingdom .
My lord , you 're falling asleep . You 're not paying attention to the play .
I 'll keep my promise just as if you really were Rosalind . So , goodbye .
No , keep going , old man ; do n't stop like that . For we may take pity on you , even if we ca n't pardon you .
Hey , if I 'd remembered something about him , I could have had a good comeback for my uncle , touching on his growth worse than he touched on mine .
If she wo n't tell Benedick , someone else should .
Should I try to soothe him by pretending to agree with his lies ?
Indeed I did , my lord . I was considered to be quite a good actor .
Fool , fool , hey , fool !
Yes , my lord , and calfskin too .
Yes . He 's not a pickpocket or a horse thief , but when it comes to truth in love , he 's as hollow as a cup or a nut hollowed out by a worm .
She 's dead , I think . --Help , uncle ! --Hero , why Hero ! Uncle ! Signior Benedick ! Friar !
Oh ! News from Italy ! Cram your good news into my ears . It 's been so long since I 've heard from him .
I 'm glad to see your highness .
What do you want from me ?
What can I give you that you want , my lord , except the one thing you ca n't have ? Cesario , you missed your appointment with me .
My lord , I will give them all they deserve .
What , fifty of my knights dismissed all at once ? In only two weeks ?
Your father lies five whole fathoms below , His bones have turned to coral now . His eyes have turned to pearls . There 's nothing left of him , He 's undergone a complete sea change And become something rich and strange . Sea nymphs ring his death bell every hour .
No , it was n't me . I never gave you anything .
What , are we having a feast ?
Oh , dear gods ! That 's how you 'll talk about me when you 're in this mood .
A murderer and a villain , a low-life who 's not worth a twentieth of a tenth of your first husband -- the worst of kings , a thief of the throne , who took the precious crown from a shelf and put it in his pocket --
And what 's the point , sir ? Why are we talking about him like this ?
Proculeius , Caesar has heard about what you 've done here and has sent for you . I 'll take the Queen into my custody .
He will , sir , if He wants to . There 's a letter for you , sir . It 's from the ambassador , Lord Hamlet , who was going to England -- if your name 's Horatio , as they told me it is .
The table of contents says it 's in the first chapter of his heart .
May He bless you , too .
From what , in God 's name ?
Jesus , he 's an ass if there ever was one ! I will say as much to his face . He knows no more about the proper practice of war , see -- the ancient practices -- than a puppy .
Let them last forever .
What ? Not dared to tempt him ?
I beg your pardon --I thought it was me whom you were calling all those terrible names .
Come , come , let 's remember why we 're here . If arguing makes us sweat , the real trial will turn that water to blood . Look : I draw my sword against conspirators . When do you think I 'll put it away ? Never , until Caesar 's thirty-three wounds are well avenged , or until I too have been killed by you .
No , heaven forbid !
I 'll reward you once for your cheerfulness and ten times for your courage . Come on .
Tell them to prepare the other room for guests . I 'm to blame for making you wait for me . Now , Cinna . Now , Metellus . Trebonius ! I have an hour-long matter to discuss with you . Remember to see me today . Stay near me so I 'll remember .
Peter Bullcalf from the village green !
Are you Tyrrel ?
He 's as tall as a man in Illyria .
I hope to see London once before I die .
You 're right . That 's true . It 's all come full circle , and here I am .
Hey there , lad ! Is that what 's happening ? Are we all going to march ?
Oh , you villain !
By the god of love , I know that he deserves all that a man might possess . But Nature never made a woman 's heart as proud and tough as Beatrice 's . There is scorn and disdain in her eyes , and those sparkling eyes despise everything they look upon . She values her wit more highly than anything else , which looks weak by comparison . She 's so in love with herself , she 's incapable of loving anyone else . She ca n't even imagine what " love " is .
Oh , sir , on her nose , which is covered with pimples , sores , and red welts . It points straight down at her mouth , which catches everything that drips from it . exotic jewels
Right . They all say they 're related to us , even if they have to trace the family tree all the way back to Japhet , the common ancestor of all Europeans . But back to the letter . " Sir John Falstaff -- knight to the son of the King , nearest to his father , Harry Prince of Wales -- sends his greetings . "
Yes ?
Now two things still need to be done . My wife has to help make Desdemona take Cassio 's side . I 'll put her on that . And I need to take the Moor aside right at the moment when Cassio 's talking to Desdemona , so he 'll see them together . Yes , that 's the way I 'll do it . Let 's not ruin a brilliant plan by being slow to act .
And you wo n't eat here today . Come again some other time .
Oh yeah . Let 's see Bullcalf .
My lord , when I first saw him I thought he was your daughter 's brother . But , my lord , this boy was born in the forest and has been schooled not in the usual subjects but only in magic . His uncle , who the boy says is a great magician and lives concealed within the boundaries of this forest , taught him .
Good man , why are you crying ?
Look , what 's your name ?
I 'll do that .
Nothing . The water 's so rough that I ca n't see any sails , either in the bay or on the ocean .
Please calm down , uncle . This is a nasty night to go swimming . On a night like this a campfire in an empty field would be like the heart of a dirty old man -- a tiny spark in a cold body . Look , here comes a walking fire .
What do you mean ?
I 'd prefer to keep my mistress rather than some lame horse .
It was about to say something when the rooster crowed .
Pardon me , sir , the boldness is all mine in seeking to court your fair and virtuous daughter , Bianca . I am indeed a stranger in this city . I 'm aware of your firm decision regarding her older sister . I only ask that when you know who my parents are , I may be made as welcome as her other suitors and given the same freedom and favor . My contribution toward the education of your daughters is a lute and this small package of Greek and Latin books . You would add to their value by accepting them .
He likes calling you that , but he 's got another Rosalind out there with a prettier face .
Love will give me strength , and strength will help me accomplish this plan . Goodbye , dear Father .
I 'll conjure him as if I were summoning a spirit . Romeo ! Madman ! Passion ! Lover ! Show yourself in the form of a sigh . Speak one rhyme , and I 'll be satisfied . Just cry out , " Ah me ! " Just say " love " and " dove . " Say just one lovely word to my good friend Venus . Just say the nickname of her blind son Cupid , the one who shot arrows so well in the old story . --Romeo does n't hear me . He does n't stir . He does n't move . The silly ape is dead , but I must make him appear . --I summon you by Rosaline 's bright eyes , by her high forehead and her red lips , by her fine feet , by her straight legs , by her trembling thighs , and by the regions right next to her thighs . In the name of all of these things , I command you to appear before us in your true form .
Sweet marjoram .
What 's that noise ?
Get that fool out of here .
Oh my God ! The poor souls -- how strangely they talk !
Oh , father , father , I 've just had such a scare !
Sir , I 'm puzzled by what you just said . But as far as what I want --I want you to give Beatrice and me your blessing to be married . That , good Friar , is where you come in .
But if we fail --
Tear him apart for his bad verses , tear him up !
Let me refer to a proverb that may help you forgive these lovers : if you ca n't change something , do n't cry about it . When you lament something bad that 's already happened , you 're setting yourself up for more
What 's the play called ?
Why , our troops amount to three times that . Besides , the king 's name is a tower of strength ; the opposition does n't have that advantage . Put up my tent ! Come , noble gentlemen , let us look at our battle plan and get some experienced officers to help us figure out the best strategy . Let 's be disciplined and not delay , because tomorrow is a busy day .
Come here , Emilia . --Do whatever you feel like doing , my husband , and I 'll obey you .
Give me your hand . Your hand 's moist , my lady .
When will he be here ?
I beg your pardon , sirs . --Please tell me your name , sir ?
Why , dear child ? It 's good to grow .
Spirit , we have to get ready to meet with Caliban .
You son of a bitch , you insane block of royalty ! I swear on this piece of weak flesh and corrupt blood that you 're welcome here !
By God , you have deceived me , Lancaster . I did n't think you were that brave . Before , I loved you as a brother ; now , I respect you as my soulmate .
Alright , I will . This is a good idea .
God gives those gifts --I had nothing to do with it .
I have to eat my dinner now . This island belongs to me because Sycorax , my mother , left it to me . But you 've taken it from me . When you first got here , you petted me and took care of me , you would give me water with berries in it , and you taught me the names for the sun and the moon , the big light and the smaller light that burn in daytime and nighttime . I loved you back then . I showed you all the features of the island , the freshwater springs , the saltwater pits , the barren places and the fertile ones . I curse myself for doing that ! I wish I could use all the magic spells of Sycorax against you and plague you with toads , beetles , and bats . I 'm the only subject you have in your kingdom , and you were my first king , and you pen me up in this cave and do n't let me go anywhere else on the island .
Yes , they are . Oh , Cassius , if you could only convince Brutus to join us --
Mark Antony --
Then heaven have mercy on me !
They 're all welcome . What worries have kept you awake tonight ?
He certainly did have rheumy eyes that year . Whenever he had to kill , he cried -- it 's true ! -- until I cried too .
Help ! Murderer ! Help !
Help Lepidus ashore ... I 'll accept it for him , Pompey .
Boy , tell him I 'm deaf .
Come on , Casca , you and I will go see Brutus at his house before sunrise . He 's three-quarters on our side already , and we 'll win him over entirely at this meeting .
Do n't worry , Bianca . Your father wo n't be angry .
No , it 's Casca , someone who 's going to work with us . Are n't the others waiting for me , Cinna ?
Oh , Tranio , until it happened to me , I never would have thought it possible . But now I confess it openly to you , Tranio . You are to me what Anna , Dido 's sister , was to the Queen of Carthage . I confide in you . I tell you , Tranio , I 'm on fire , in agony . I 'll die if I ca n't have this modest young girl for my wife . Advise me , Tranio --I know you can . Help me , Tranio --I know you will .
I 'm telling you , I hardly know myself . Did you hear the news that 's going around ?
I hope some will fall off tomorrow .
That 's the one . But he did good work in the Battle of Shrewsbury , and I hear he 's taking some soldiers to help Lord John of Lancaster .
Sir Christopher , relay this message to Richmond : My son George Stanley is penned up in the bloody boar 's sty . If I revolt , off goes young George 's head . My fear of that prevents me from helping Richmond at this time . But , tell me , where is the noble Richmond now ?
I expect no less . Uncle of Exeter , release the man who was arrested yesterday for railing against me . I believe he only did it because he drank too much , and now that he 's had a chance to think about his actions , I can pardon him .
Yes , my lord . I thank my heart -- the poor fool -- for it keeps away from seriousness . Look , my cousin is whispering to Claudio that she loves him .
I 'm indebted to you . Goodbye .
Do you know Captain Gower ?
By Hercules , I think I 'm right .
Do you know the plot ? Is there anything offensive in it ?
They still have n't joined the battle . I 'll be able to see better from that pine tree over there . I 'll let you know right away how it 's going .
No , no , I assure you , Katherine - -and you , too , Baptista --Petruchio means well , whatever circumstance prevents him from keeping his word . He 's rough - edged , but he 's a good man , and though he likes a joke , he 's not a liar .
Well , it 's a fault I would n't trade for your best virtue . I 'm tired of you .
Plantagenet .
Is this the man you recommended ? Are you the man who knows the future ?
Are you lovebirds only starting to pair up now ?
I have n't done anything to deserve this !
Pyramus there , transformed into someone with a donkey 's head . At that exact moment , Titania woke up and immediately fell in love with him , an ass .
We 'll be ready when the time comes .
They fired a greeting shot too , so this is also a friendly ship .
No , but the barber 's assistant has been seen with him . The beard that used to decorate Benedick 's cheeks has been shaved off and is now stuffing tennis balls .
No , he just smiles . You should have a guard nearby if he comes in here , because he 's clearly disturbed .
Come here , Francis .
No , not at all . Just follow the logic : Alexander died , Alexander was buried , Alexander returned to dust , the dust is dirt , and dirt makes mud we use to stop up holes . So why ca n't someone plug a beer barrel with the dirt that used to be Alexander ? The great emperor Caesar , dead and turned to clay , might plug up a hole to keep the wind away . Oh , to think that the same body that once ruled the world could now patch up a wall ! But quiet , be quiet a minute .
Yes , pilgrim -- they have lips that they 're supposed to pray with .
I ca n't condemn him to death without a formal trial , but I 'm powerful enough that I can still do something to express my anger . Some men may blame me for doing this , but they wo n't be able to do anything about it . --Who 's there ? Is that the traitor ?
And I hope to God I always will , so long as you overstep the bounds of allegiance and duty by standing against the anointed King . But let me get to the point . The King sent me to learn your complaints , and to find out why you are stirring up warfare in a time of peace , and spreading violent dissent throughout his loyal country . If the King has somehow overlooked one of your deserving acts -- which , he admits , there are many -- he asks you to name your complaints . He 'll meet your demands , with interest , as quickly as possible , and grant an absolute pardon to you and everyone who has followed your mistaken lead .
Ca n't what , my lord ?
They 'll feel me as long as I can keep an erection . Everybody knows I 'm a nice piece of flesh .
I want my bond . I wo n't listen to you . I want my bond , so stop talking . I wo n't be taken for a fool who sighs and gives in to Christian meddlers . Do n't follow me . I 'm not talking with you . I want my bond .
We 're walking up to the top right now . See how hard it is to climb ?
Sweet knight , I kiss your fist . Look ! It 's so late -- we can see the Big Dipper out .
I suspected that you were noble when I saw how you walked . Let me embrace you . I swear I never hated you or your father !
So let her execute me . Anyone who 's executed does n't have to be afraid of anything he sees .
Was there ever a match put together so quickly ?
There 's been a whole debate on the topic . For a while , no play was sold to the theaters without a big fight between the children 's playwright and the actors playing adult roles .
Why do you need even one ?
What have I done that you dare to talk to me so rudely ?
Oh , your report is too poetic , but it sounds so true !
Yes , heavily .
I know they do , and I certainly deserve it .
What can you see out on the ocean ?
Can the devil tell the truth ?
It does n't matter . His name 's Cinna . Pull only his name out of his heart and let him go .
Really ? Is that true ?
Jesus ! Sir , sir !
My own flesh and blood turned against me ! A rebel !
that comes up . Well , I ca n't live forever . That 's the thing about the English : when they have something good , they use it continually . If you 're going to insist that I 'm an old man , then let me rest . I wish to God the enemy were n't as scared of me as they are : I 'd rather sit and rust than be worn out by all this work .
Get out of here , you pile of crap .
I can confirm that all these shocking things are true . After the wedding ceremony , I 'll tell you all about beautiful Hero 's " death . " In the meantime , just accept all these wonderful things , and let 's head to the chapel .
" Clarence has arrived -- lying , cowardly Clarence , who stabbed me at Tewksbury . Grab him , avenging spirits , and torment him . " With that , a legion of ugly demons surrounded me and howled so loudly in my ears that I woke up trembling and for a long time thought I was still in hell .
The thoughtful , witty Buckingham will no longer be privy to my innermost thoughts . Has he held out for me for so long and without a moment 's doubt only to suddenly need some " breathing room " ? Well , so be it .
I 'll see you hanged on Sunday first !
Othello , I 've been seriously hurt . Your officer Iago can tell you what happened . I should save my breath , since it hurts to talk . I did n't do anything wrong that I know of , unless it was a sin to defend myself when someone attacked me .
You 're looking for Lord Hamlet . He 's right over there .
No.
Where have I been ? Where are you ? Has Tranio stolen your clothes , master ? Or have you stolen his ? Have you both stolen each other 's ? Please , what 's going on ?
It 's Caius Ligarius , whom Metellus spoke of . Boy , stand aside . Caius Ligarius ! How are you ?
What news ?
I beg you , Strato , stay by me . You 're a man with a good reputation . Your life has had honor in it . Then , hold my sword and turn your face away while I run on it . Will you , Strato ?
Nothing more than that you 'd lose your husband .
Madam , I 'd rather sew my lips shut than tell a lie when my life depends upon it .
What , are you jealous , Oberon? --Fairies , let 's get out of here . I 've sworn I 'll never sleep with him or talk to him again .
I 've got news , boys , the war 's over ! This terrible storm has smashed the Turks so badly that their plans are ruined . One of our ships has reported that it saw most of their fleet shipwrecked .
God of battles ! Where do they get this spirit ? Is n't their climate foggy , cold , and dark ? Does n't the sun shine palely down on them , as though in contempt , killing their fruit with frowns ? Can boiled water -- a drink for broken-down horses , heat their cold blood to such a valiant level ? And shall our lively blood , quickened by wine , be so frosty ? Oh , for the
I 'll do it . I 'll put them on trial right now . Come sit here , our able judge . And you sit here , wise sir . --Now , you she - foxes --
Is it possible ?
Well , let it strike ten then .
There 's some treason occurring , gentlemen . Stay here .
That 's a stupid thing to say .
My dear Portia , if you knew who I gave the ring to , for whose sake I gave the ring to him , why I gave it to him , and how unwilling I was to leave it when he would n't accept anything but the ring , you would n't be so angry .
I fear that your words and your heart are both false .
Peto , how are you ? What 's going on ?
So , there 's the signal to ride . Good - bye , noble Agrippa .
I do n't think it 's a good idea .
I can imagine more than I can say --I have more on my mind than words . Anyone who can count how much he has is poor . My true love has made me so rich that I ca n't count even half of my wealth .
Come , follow me . Do n't defend him .
No you have n't , cousin . Please , be cheerful . Do n't you realize the duke has also banished me , his daughter ?
Come forward and speak .
I have an ache ; I 'm sighing for the letter that begins all those words .
than a beast ! Go look for him . I 'll arrest him . Horrid villain ! Where is he ?
What do you have to say , my dear Nurse ?
The old king was so overjoyed by this promise that he gave young Fortinbras an annual income of three thousand crowns and permission to lead his soldiers into Poland , asking you officially in this letter to allow his troops to pass through your kingdom on their way to Poland . He 's assuring you of your safety . ( he gives CLAUDIUS a document
Go , captain . Tell the army this news of peace . Pay them , and send them away . I know it will make them happy . Hurry , captain .
Are you sighing for a hawk , a horse , or a husband ?
Madam , I heard her speak . She has a low-pitched voice .
That 's an oath of great power , and our fury must subside . Give me your hand -- your forefoot . You have a brave spirit .
Just know this before I begin : I ca n't play a single note that 's worthy of note .
Even though no man can know what blessings will come his way , he must expect the worst . I am sorry ; I wish it were otherwise .
Oh , " sweet " ! It sounds like a nice and gentle kind of faith . Where 's the passage of holy scripture that you 're basing your sermon on ?
Why , sir , you know this is your wedding day . First we were sad because we were afraid you would n't come . Now we 're even sadder to see that you 've come so unprepared . For heaven 's sake , take off that get - up . It 's a disgrace to a man of your social position and an insult to this solemn ceremony .
No , I do n't , my lord .
For the same thing .
But I almost feel guilty .
I think it was a year ago that I told you how much Margaret , Hero 's servant woman , likes me .
Well , that 's certainly out of this world , all right . His answers are so full of meaning sometimes ! He has a way with words , as crazy people often do , and that sane people do n't have a talent for . I 'll leave him now and arrange a meeting between him and my daughter . My lord , I 'll take my leave of you now .
Nicely done ; you laid that on thick .
Watch out , Bassanio . The devil can quote Scripture for his own use . An evil soul using a holy story is like a criminal who smiles at you . He looks like a good apple but he 's rotten at the core . Oh , liars can look so honest !
How goes it , friend Eros ?
Oberon , I 've had such a strange dream ! I dreamed I was in love with an ass .
But you wo n't take his flesh if he ca n't pay . What 's that good for ?
Then certain ones .
One more time , we proclaim this publicly : If anyone will pay this man 's bail , he will not be put to death . This is how well we regard him .
No , leave him alone . I 'll get back at him another way . I 'll sue him for assault and battery , if there 's any justice in Illyria . It does n't matter that I hit him first .
What 's the news , my lord ?
Sir Oliver Martext , we 're glad to see you . Will you marry us here , under this tree , or should we follow you to your chapel ?
This is completely insane .
The Prince is nearby . If you will , please meet him at a spot halfway between our two armies .
Indeed , I think the young King has no love for you .
Well , it seems to me that the streets are as much mine as yours .
Come with me .
No , please , I beg your Majesty .
Mercutio , you hang out with Romeo .
As if by chance , God knows , and then , you know , It happened , as you 'd expect -- If you want to know more , you can refer to the popular song , because now I have to stop .
I 'm reluctant to tell you what I wish you knew .
You mean however they dare . I 'll bite my thumb at them . That 's an insult , and if they let me get away with it they 'll be dishonored .
God almighty ! The turkeys I 'm carrying are starving ! Hey , Stable - boy ! Curse you ! Ca n't you see ? Ca n't you hear ? If it is n't a good idea to knock you on the head , I 'm a fool . Come on , damn you ! Ca n't we trust you to do your job ?
Tell me ! Why did you lock me out today ? And why are you denying that you received the gold ?
Noble Mercutio , put your sword away .
Do you hear what I 'm saying , Iago ? I 'll be very patient , but --do you hear me?- -I 'm not done with him yet
Honestly , no .
You 're mistaken about all that . The only thing different about me is my clothes .
Curse the day ! She 's dead , she 's dead , she 's dead !
That 's fine , but for now keep your cool . Will you go hide ?
If I had only died an hour before this event I could say I had lived a blessed life . Because from this moment on , there is nothing worth living for . Everything is a sick joke . The graceful and renowned king is dead . The wine of life has been poured out , and only the dregs remain .
Listen ! I hear their drums . Fight , gentlemen of England ! Fight , brave landlords ! Draw your bows all the way back , archers ! Spur your proud horses hard , horsemen , and ride in blood . Startle even the sky with the sound of your lances cracking .
Prepare yourselves , generals . The enemy approaches with great display . They show their bloody heralds of battle , and something must be done immediately .
Put your sword away . If this young gentleman has offended you , I 'll take the blame for it . If you 've offended him , I 'll fight you .
Stand aside for Caesar .
You see , he poisons the king in his own garden to get the kingdom for himself . The king 's name is Gonzago . The original story was written in the finest Italian . You 'll see shortly how the murderer wins the love of Gonzago 's wife .
Just as bad , my lord .
I think I can find him . Get together a group of armed men and follow me .
There is no trust , no faith , no honesty in men . All of them lie . All of them cheat . They 're all wicked . Ah , where 's my servant?- -Give me some brandy . --These griefs , these pains , these sorrows make me old . Shame on Romeo !
Look -- here he comes . If you do n't mind , please step aside . He 'll either have to tell me what 's wrong or else tell me no over and over .
Here 's a list of all of the acts that have been prepared . Choose which one you want to see first .
The masquerade party might turn out terribly if we do n't manage things carefully . I think it 's better to call it off .
Believe what ?
I do n't like your faults .
No , wait . I will kiss you . Now please , love , stay .
I did n't see him .
And my sweet master , I received no gold . But I agree , sir , that we were locked out .
Look at this picture here , and that one there , the painted images of two brothersHamlet may be referring to miniatures they wear around their necks , or to pictures on the wall.the painted images of two brothers . Look how kind and gentlemanly this one is , with his curly hair and his forehead like a Greek god . His eye could command like the god of war . His body is as agile as Mercury just landing on a high hill . A figure and a combination of good qualities that seemed like every god had set his stamp on this man .
Benedick once put up a public notice in Messina challenging Cupid to an archery match . My uncle' s jester accepted the contest on Cupid 's behalf but used toy arrows at the shooting match . But tell me , how many men did he kill and eat in this battle ? I promised him I would eat anyone he killed .
And there 's nothing I can do about it . That 's the curse of military service . You get promoted when someone likes you , not because you 're next in line . Now , you tell me : should I feel loyal to the Moor ?
Let 's go up to the castle . Good news , friends . The war 's over and the Turks are drowned . How are my old friends from this island doing?- -Honey , they 'll love you here in Cyprus . They 've been very good to me here . Oh , my dear , I 'm blabbing on and on because I 'm so happy . --Iago , would you be good enough to go get my trunks from the ships ? And bring the ship 's captain to the castle . He 's a good man . --Let 's go , Desdemona . I 'll say it again : I 'm so happy to see you here in Cyprus !
You see me standing here , Lord Bassanio . What you see is what you get . Though I would n't wish to be better for my own sake , for your sake I wish I were twenty times more than myself -- a thousand times more beautiful and ten thousand times richer -- just so you might value me more , so my good qualities , beauty , possessions , and friends would be more than you could calculate . What you 're getting is an innocent and inexperienced girl . I 'm happy that at least I 'm not too old to learn new things . I 'm even happier that I 'm not stupid , and I can learn . I 'm happiest of all that I 'm yours now , my lord , my king , and you can guide me as you wish . Everything I am and everything I have now belongs to you . Just a minute ago I was the owner of this beautiful mansion , master of these servants , and queen over myself . But as of right this second all these things are yours . With this ring I give them all to you .
What , you dare put your hands on me , villain ?
The tyrant 's bloody request has been met . It was the most ruthless massacre this country has ever been guilty of . Dighton and Forrest , whom I hired to perform the butchery , are used to killing people , the bloody dogs . But they melted with tenderness and human compassion , weeping like children , when they described what they 'd done . " The tender babes lay like this , " said Dighton . " Like this , " said Forrest , " with their innocent white arms around each other . Their lips , like four red roses on a stalk , touched . A prayer book lay on their pillow , which " said Forrest , " almost made me change my mind . But , oh , the devil " -- there he stopped talking and Dighton took up where he left off : " We smothered the perfect , most sweet work of nature . " The two men were both destroyed by remorse . They could n't speak . So I left them to bring the news to the murderous king . And here he comes .
Sure , but they 'll recognize our horses , our clothes , and all our other things .
You want it in a second , Francis ? No , Francis . Maybe tomorrow , Francis , or Thursday , Francis , whenever you want it . But , Francis .
You would take it back ? Why would you do that , my love ?
Ha , ha , so you 've gotten into her private parts ? Of course --Lady Luck is such a slut . Anyway , what 's up ?
These deep , heaving sighs of yours mean something . You have to tell me what . I need to know . Where 's your son ?
Yes , he 'll weep stones , as he taught us to do .
A pimp ! A pimp ! A pimp ! I 've found it out .
How do you mean , " conspired " ?
You liar , you respond better to the whip than to kindness ! I took good care of you -- piece of filth that you are -- and let you stay in my own hut until you tried to rape my daughter .
Who are you talking about , niece ?
More shouting ! I think this applause is for some new honors awarded to Caesar .
Hang on , I 'll end it soon , I promise : By the name of Jesus and Saint Charity , My goodness , what a shame it is , Young men will do it if they get a chance : By God , they 're very bad . She said , " Before you got me into bed , You promised to marry me . " He answers : " I would have married you , I swear , If you had n't gone to bed with me . "
Can God be so jealous and hateful ?
Here 's to you , Menas .
Yes , you want to go join Richmond . But I 'm not going to trust you .
You think I 'm kidding . Please tell me seriously what you think of her .
Welcome , then .
Today , Lord Stafford paid for resembling you so well , for instead of you , King Harry , my sword killed him . Now it will kill you , unless you surrender as my prisoner .
I say a devil . Do you really think there 's a man fool enough to marry into hell -- however rich the father is ?
Well , he 'll be dead , so he wo n't see anything .
My God , this is unbelievably strange .
Guy , you 'd better take my cap .
You sound like a cattle dealer : that 's the way they sell bulls . But do you really think the Prince would treat you that way ?
I 've got to deliver a ham and some ginger root all the way to Charing Cross .
I mean please go into the house , sir .
Armed , sir .
Gentlemen , Hamlet 's talked a lot about you , and I know there are no two men alive he 's fonder of . If you 'll be so good as to spend some time with us and help us out , you 'll be thanked on a royal scale .
" As for me , sir , I would be happy to be there because of the love I bear for your family . " He would be happy to be here . Well , why is n't he , then ? He says he loves my family , but he clearly loves his barn more than our house . I 'll read on . " Your plan is dangerous . " That 's true , and it 's also dangerous to catch a cold , to sleep , to drink . But I tell you , my lord fool , we shall pluck a flower of safety from this thorn of danger . " Your plan is dangerous ; your allies untrustworthy ; your timing poor ; and your whole project too weak to counter so powerful an opponent . " Is that so ? Is that so ? I 'll say it once again : you are a stupid , cowardly dog , and a liar . What an idiot this is ! By God , our plan is as good a plan as ever hatched , our allies loyal and firm . A good plan , good allies , and very promising ; it 's an excellent plan , very good allies . What a yellowbellied fool this is ! Why , the Archbishop of York approves of the plan , and how it 's progressing . Damn ! If I were with this imbecile right now , I 'd break his head open with his wife 's fan . Do n't we have my father ? And my uncle , and me ? Edmund Mortimer , York , and Owen Glendower ? And besides , do n't we have Douglas ? Have n't they all sent me letters , promising to meet me with their armies by the ninth of next month ? And are n't some of them on their way already ? What an unbelievable ass this is ! Faithless ! Ha ! Just watch ; he 'll run to the King in cold fear and spill our secrets . Oh , I could split myself in two and knock my own self senseless for unfolding this important plan to such a coward . To hell with him ! Let him tell the King ; we 're ready . I 'll set off tonight .
Why did he do that ?
Oh Lord , sir . I 'd swear on a stack of Bibles that I 'd love to be able to --
I would n't say anything , not if you gave me the whole island for doing so . I respect Cassio and I 'd like to help cure his alcoholism --
Well then , he 's God 's soldier now ! If I had as many sons as I have hairs on my head , I could n't hope that any of them would die more honorably than he did . And that 's all there is to it .
Ambassadors of Harry , king of England , request a hearing with your Majesty .
A man who 's been cheated on is n't a real man . He 's subhuman , like an animal .
Let God forgive you ! But I 'm amazed , Harry , at your inclinations , which run completely contrary to those of your ancestors . Your vulgar behavior has cost you your place on my council , a position now held by your younger brother . You have almost completely alienated yourself from the good graces of the courtiers and the other members of the royal family . The hopes of your youth are now ruined ; every man , in his heart , thinks he can see your downfall . If I had been so publicly visible , so overly familiar to people , so freely accessible , so cheap and available to the common hordes , then public opinion would have stayed loyal to King Richard . I would have stayed a banished man , with no reputation and no promise of success . But because I was so rarely seen in public , people were amazed by me when I did appear ; they acted as if I were a comet . Men would tell their children , " That 's him ! " Others would ask , " Where ? Which one 's Bolingbroke ? " I was more gracious than heaven ; I acted so modestly that I won the allegiance of their hearts , and the shouts and salutes of their mouths . They even did so when the King himself was present . This is how I kept myself fresh and new . I was like a priest 's ceremonial vestments : rarely seen , but admired . I appeared seldomly , but marvelously , like a feast made all the more impressive by its rarity . Now , ridiculous King Richard pranced about with vapid clowns and superficial wits , quickly lit and just as quickly burnt out . He degraded himself , mingling his royal self with those skipping fools .
Now summon up the image of stealthy murmurs and engulfing darkness filling the wide vessel of the universe . From camp to camp through the dark cave of night , the noise from both armies grows so quiet that those standing watch almost think they can hear the whispered secrets of one another 's sentinels . One by one , fires are lit on both sides , and through their pale flames , each army thinks he sees the smoke - tinged faces of the other . The horses of each army answer one another 's proud , threatening neighs as they pierce the dull night , and from the tents the sound of the blacksmiths ' hammers as they fit out the knights , closing rivets up , adds a note of fear to the preparations . The country cocks crow and the clocks toll , sounding a drowsy three o'clock in the morning . Proud of their army and secure in their numbers , the confident and overeager French play dice , betting on how many worthless Englishmen each will capture . They scold the limping , slowly moving night , which , like an ugly old woman , takes so long to pass . The poor doomed English , like sacrificial beasts , sit patiently , and privately contemplate the dangers that will arrive with morning . With their grave faces , emaciated cheeks , and war-torn coats , they seem to the gazing moon like so many horrifying ghosts . Now , whoever spots the royal captain of this ruined army walking from camp to camp , from tent to tent , let him cry " Praise and glory on his head ! " For out he goes visiting all his troops . He bids them good morning with a modest smile and calls
He ca n't speak , my lord .
Cousin , why is our army still standing ?
Bardolph !
Oh , poor Romeo ! He 's already dead . He 's been stabbed by a white girl 's black eye . He 's been cut through the ear with a love song . The center of his heart has been split by blind Cupid 's arrow . Is he man enough at this point to face off with Tybalt ?
He 's counted on your friendship for his success . He 's shared dangers with you --
Do n't swear at all . But if you have to swear , swear by your wonderful self , which is the god I worship like an idol , and then I 'll believe you .
Well , Brutus , you 're noble . Yet I see that your honorable character can be bent from its usual shape , which proves that good men should stick only to the company of other good men , because who is so firm that he ca n't be seduced ? Caesar resents me , but he loves Brutus . If I were Brutus now and Brutus were me , I would n't have let him influence me . Tonight I 'll throw through his window a few letters in different handwriting -- as if they came from several citizens -- all testifying to the great respect Romans have for Brutus , and all alluding to Caesar 's unseemly ambition . And after this , let Caesar brace himself , for we 'll either dethrone him or suffer even worse than now .
You never did believe in the power of beauty .
My lord , I can speak English just as well as you . I was brought up in the English court . There , in my youth , I composed many English songs for the harp , lending the language lovely ornaments of music . That is an accomplishment you have never achieved .
Hello , Barnardo .
I wish you all the comfort that such a dark night as this can offer , noble father - in - law . Tell me , how is my mother ?
Wait . Take these keys and get more spices , Nurse .
Horatio , you 're the best man I 've ever known .
I wish my eyes were basilisks , so they could strike you dead !
I agree . I think you seem more serious .
Call them back , my lord , and accept their request . If you refuse it , the whole country will regret it .
He 's inside , ma'am , but he has changed dramatically since you last saw him . When I told him that the invading army has landed , he just smiled at me . When I told him you were on your way , he replied , " Too bad . " When I told him about Gloucester 's betrayal and his son Edmund 's loyal service , he called me an idiot and said I had it all wrong . He was delighted by the bad news and disgusted by the good news .
But do n't take all that pain on yourself . Make sure the ones who have wronged you suffer too .
Yes , a little too sweet .
It orders me to hand the noble duke of Clarence over to you . I wo n't ask why because I 'd rather not know than feel guilty if you 're doing something you should n't be . Here are the keys , and there is the duke , sleeping . I 'll go to the king to let him know I 've handed my prisoner over to you .
Gracious ! Why so pale , my friend ?
You do , my good lord . Everyone here has turned white .
My lord , if you have a free moment , I have a message from His Majesty .
This new and gorgeous robe of majesty does n't fit me as comfortably as you think . Brothers , your sadness is mixed with fear . This is the English court , not the Turkish one . I 'm not Amurath , who had his brothers killed when he inherited his father King Amurath 's crown ; I 'm a Harry , following another Harry . But be sad , brothers , because truly , it suits you . You look so regal in your sorrow that I will solemnly put it on as well , and wear it in my heart . Be sad , but do n't let it be anything more than a burden we all share jointly . I want you to rest assured that as far as I 'm concerned , I 'll be both your father and your brother now . Just trust me with your love , and you can trust me to care for you . Keep weeping for Harry , who is dead ; I will , as well . But one Harry still lives , and he will convert those tears one by one into hours of happiness .
I make them fat ? Gluttony and disease will make men fat ; I have nothing to do with it .
Buckingham , my brother , and you wise , serious men , since you intend to force me to take responsibility for these changing times , whether I want to or not , I 'm going to have to be brave and endure the load . But if this imposition you 've put on me happens to result in dark scandal or ugly reproach , the fact that you forced me to accept this should clear me from blame . God knows , and you may have noticed , I 'm not to eager to take on this job .
Yes , my lord .
Hey ! What ? They 're all gone ? Well , I will walk by myself to Count Paris to get him ready for tomorrow . My heart is wonderfully happy because this troubled girl has been taken back and now will be married .
I thank you all for your trouble and courtesy .
Come , my boy , let 's go to sanctuary . Madam , farewell .
I 'll help you , Sir Toby . They 'll treat our wounds together .
Sirrah , do I owe you a thousand pounds ?
Pain , yes indeed . We would find ourselves in pain . You thought you were being funny , but you said the truth .
" He who chooses me will get what many men want . " What many men want -- that " many " could mean that most people are fools and choose by whatever is flashy . They do n't go beyond what their eyes see . They do n't bother to find out what 's on the inside . Just like those birds called martins who build their nests on the outside of walls , people pay too much attention to what 's on the outside . So I wo n't choose what many men desire , because I wo n't jump on the bandwagon and include myself with the whole crude population . So I guess it 's you , you silver treasure house . Tell me once more what you say . " He who chooses me will get what he deserves . " That 's nicely put -- because who 's going to cheat luck and get more than he deserves ? No one should have an honor he does n't deserve . Oh , would n't it be great if property , rank , official positions , and other honors were earned only by merit , not by corruption ? There would n't be too many important men then . How many people who are humble now would be great then ? How many people who give orders now would have to take orders ? How many noblemen would be weeded out and would become peasants ? And how many common people would suddenly shine with nobility ? Well , let me get back to my choice . " He who chooses me will get what he deserves . " I 'll assume I deserve the very best . --Give me a key for this one . I 'll unlock my fate here in a second .
Here , sir , as foolish as ever .
I ca n't tell which is the better course of action , to leave in silence or to scold you . If I do n't answer , perhaps you 'll think I 'm accepting the heavy responsibility you foolishly want to impose on me . But if I do speak and refuse your request , then I 'm guilty of reprimanding my friends , who have been faithful and loving toward me . So , I 'll speak to make clear I do n't want the crown but also that I am grateful to you . Here is my definitive answer : thank you for your love , but I 'm going to have to turn down your weighty request because I do n't deserve to be king . First of all , even if all the obstacles were eliminated and my path led straight to the crown -- if it were truly my birthright --I would rather hide from my greatness than hide inside the greatness of the position itself and be smothered by it . My spirit is poor , and I have so many terrible defects that as king I would be like a little boat tossed about on a mighty sea . So , thank God , there is no real need for me , as I would n't be able to help you much . The royal tree has left us other fruit , which , with time , will do just fine on the throne and make us all happy as king , I 'm sure . Someone other than I has the right and the good fortune to be made king . God forbid that I snatch the crown from him .
I was wrong to her --
You 're absolutely right . I 'd bet my life that , as young as you are , you 've fallen in love with someone . Have n't you , boy ?
He says his name is Master Fer .
What 's up , Pistol !
My heart has been wounded , but by a lady , not a lion .
Well , my dear , you 're the mistress of my heart in any case !
Then you 'd have missed an amazing piece of work , sir , and your trip would have been poorer for the loss .
And me too .
What do you remember ? A house , a person ? Tell me anything you remember .
Yes , let 's do that .
Make her their boots ? Why , will she keep their feet dry from muddy water ?
I was telling you he used witchcraft to take this island . He stole it from me . If your highness is willing , take revenge on him for that -- because I know you 're brave enough , I do n't dare to --
He 's married .
Yes , my lord . She 'll look good in your bed , and she 'll produce some fine children too .
Well , peace be with the man who has made us sad .
My worthy Cawdor !
That 's not in her favor . He ca n't like her very long .
Here . Swear , and tell me how you survived .
I suspect that I have committed some offence to the city and you have come to reprimand me for not knowing better .
There 's always a breath of fresh air here .
No , I 'm begging you now , tell me who it is .
Sir , our watch tonight -- expectfully , sir -- has captured a couple of the worst criminals in Messina .
I 'm sorry .
Ca n't do it .
Whose tongue ?
Take it , brave York . Now , soldiers , advance . And you , God , bestow today 's victory however it pleases You .
Or ask you to leave the room ?
The valiant soldier is still dressed like that , lying on the ground , drenching the field with his blood . By his side lies the noble earl of Suffolk , York 's comrade and equal in brave wounds . Suffolk died first , and York , cut to pieces , came to him where he lay in his blood and took him by the face , kissing his gashes . He cried out , " Wait for me , dear cousin . My soul will keep yours company on the way to heaven . Wait for mine , sweet soul . We 'll fly there side by side , just as we stood together as brother - knights in this glorious and well - fought battle ! " At this , I went to comfort him . He smiled at me close , gave me his hand , gripping me feebly , and said , " My dear lord , commend my service to my king . " With that , he turned and threw his wounded arm around Suffolk 's neck and kissed his lips . And so ,
My name 's Macbeth .
No , gentle madam , go . Comfort him .
How does she claim to own you ?
Come over here , nurse . Who is that gentleman ?
What 's the matter ?
Agreed . This imaginary suitor for Katherina --I 'd buy him the best horse in Padua if he 'd get here quickly , woo her , marry her , take her to bed , and rid the house of her . Let 's go .
We 'll leave before them , or after them . We 'll tell them to meet us someplace , but then we wo n't show up . They 'll pull off the robbery by themselves , and the second they 've done it , we 'll attack them .
Draw your sword . If I offend you by what I say , you can use your sword to take revenge . Here 's mine . Look at it . It 's the symbol of my honor , my rank , and my status as a knight . In spite of your youth , rank , strength , and excellence at warfare , in spite of your courage , your recent victory , and your good luck , I declare that you 're a traitor . You 've betrayed your gods , your brother , and your father . You 've plotted against this noble duke . You 're a rotten traitor , through and through , from the top of your head to the soles of your feet . If you disagree with me , I 'm ready to use this sword and my courage to prove that you 're a liar .
No , you 'll talk .
Good sir , this ring was given to me by my wife . When she put it on my finger , she made me swear never to sell it , give it away , or lose it .
Sure thing , we 'll do it tomorrow morning . My lady would never want to lose him .
Take care of the lady .
Instead of the pleasures we think they 're enjoying , they experience a whole world of worries . It turns out the only difference between them and peasants is their fame .
Let any man perish who is n't ready now !
All right , that 's what we 'll do then . But there are two things we still have to figure out . How are we going to bring moonlight into a room ? Because , you know , Pyramus and Thisbe meet by moonlight .
Please do n't tell me any more . I 'm almost afraid you 're going to tell me he 's a relative of yours , because you 're going so crazy praising him . Come on , Nerissa , I want to go see this man who 's come so courteously .
Quiet , nephew ; do n't say any more . I have a secret for you , which is hidden like a book with a lock . I will open the book and read you a dark , dangerous story that will appeal to your righteous anger . It 's full of peril and adventure , as risky as walking across a churning , thundering river while balanced unsteadily on a spear .
That may be the case , because my face does n't belong to me . --Do you have time for me now , Father , or should I come to you at evening mass ?
I sent the Nurse at nine o'clock . Maybe she ca n't find him . That ca n't be . Oh , she 's slow ! Love 's messengers should be thoughts , which fly ten times faster than sunbeams . They should be strong enough to push shadows over the dark hills . That 's the way doves carry Venus so fast , and that 's why Cupid has wings that let him fly as fast as the wind . Now it 's noon . That 's three hours since nine o'clock , but she has n't come back . If she was young and passionate , she 'd move as fast as a ball . My words would bounce her to my sweet love , and his words would bounce her back to me . But a lot of old people act like they 're already dead -- sluggish , slow , fat , and colorless , like lead .
Agrippa , go start the battle . We want Antony taken alive . Make sure everyone knows that .
Are you his brother ?
Give him the goblet .
When such a great man dies there should be a thunderclap . The fractured world , in its confusion , should send lions into the city streets and humans into the wilderness to live in lions ' dens . This is n't the death of one man . It 's the death of half the world .
But since you 've come too late to see the execution as we intended , at least let people know what you hear we intended . And so , good Lord Mayor , we bid you goodbye .
I 'd get the better of you in this storytelling game , but somebody 's coming . I hear his footsteps .
Yes , Caesar ?
Right or not , it 's made you the Earl of Gloucester . Go find your father and let him know we 're going to arrest him .
I 'll bite you on the ear for that joke .
Well , read Hortensio 's scale anyway .
I 've promised to make everything right . Duke Senior , keep your promise to give away your daughter . Orlando , keep your promise to marry his daughter . Phoebe , keep your promise to marry me , and to marry this shepherd if you choose to refuse me . Silvius , keep your promise to marry Phoebe if she refuses me . I 'll leave now , to set all these things right .
Help , my lord of Norfolk , help , help ! The king performs more wonders than seem humanly possible , challenging every enemy he sees . His horse is killed , so he 's fighting on foot , risking his life to search out Richmond . Help , dear lord , or the battle will be lost !
Will you be having dinner with her tonight ?
You are the most honorable man alive , and if any man challenges that -- no matter how powerful --I 'll defy him .
Because it does n't have eight ?
Where do you memorize all this smart talk ?
And make sure the servants are less friendly to his knights . Do n't worry about the consequences . Tell your men as much . I want this to provoke confrontations , so I can give him a piece of my mind . I 'll write to my sister and tell her my plans . Now go , set up for dinner .
Oh , my good lord , why are you alone like this ? What have I done to make my Harry banish me from his bed these past two weeks ? Tell me , sweet husband , what has stolen your appetite , your desire , and your sleep ? Why do you stare at the ground and jump in your skin when you are sitting alone ? Where is the color in your cheeks ? Why have you taken all your attention , which should be mine , and given it to this dark mood and terrible sadness ? While you sleep so lightly , I 've watched you and heard you mumble stories of war . I 've heard you give commands to your horse . I 've heard you yell , " Courage ! To the field ! " And you have talked of charges and retreats ; of trenches , tents ; of fences , ramparts , and walls ; of all types of cannon ; of prisoners ' ransoms and of dead soldiers , and of all the movements of a violent battle . Your soul has also been at war and has disturbed you in your sleep . Beads of sweat have broken out on your forehead , like bubbles in a churning stream . And on your face I 've seen strange expressions , like a man who 's gulping his breath at an awful , sudden command . Oh , what does all this mean ? My lord is contemplating some serious matters , and if he does n't tell me about them , he surely does n't love me .
I saw her once hop forty feet down the street . When she stopped she was so out of breath that she was panting . Her beauty made even that weakness seem perfect , and even in her breathlessness she seemed to pour out breath .
No , my lord , that was me . I 'm the one who --
Are you trying to sleep with him ?
The note is a big fat liar if it says I said so .
Send your prisoners , or you 'll hear about it .
I 'm all right . But I 've decided to run away , and I ca n't wait to get going . My master 's a total Jew . You 're giving him a present ? Give him a noose to hang himself . He 's starving me to death . You can see my ribs so well you can count them . I 'm glad you 've come , father . Give me your present to give to Master Bassanio . He gives his servants beautiful new uniforms .
I meant they had to give her credit .
I know the man a bit . Go , bring him here , boy .
" Why " first : for defying me . And then " wherefore " : for doing it a second time .
Give me your hand , first . Farewell , my lord .
Who knows what the Lord Protector thinks ? Who 's closest to him ?
If you say so .
Hurry up . Your lives are over .
You 've offered an excellent interpretation .
But she is n't .
What ? A young troublemaker ? A beggar ? Is n't there a war on ? Is n't there work to do ? Does n't the King need subjects ? Do n't the rebels need soldiers ? Though it 's shameful to be on any side but the King 's , it 's even more shameful to be an idle beggar than a soldier on
Yes , sir . Only one man in ten thousand is good in this world .
Oh no , no , no , no , do n't you dare .
Tell us , men . What happened ?
Yes , come on . Here 's sixpence for you . Let 's hear a song .
Is she really that wonderful ?
I 'll watch this play . Nothing can really be bad when it 's created by simple people who try hard . Come on , bring them in . And sit down , ladies .
But what about your guilty conscience ?
I will walk around and mingle with all of you , playing the humble host . My wife will stay in her royal chair , but at the appropriate time I will have her welcome you all .
There no way to cure the illness that 's making my wallet waste away ; borrowing makes it live a little longer , but the disease is incurable . Bring this letter to Lord John of Lancaster , this one to the Prince , this one to Westmoreland , and this one to Madame Ursula . I 've promised to marry her every single week since I got my first gray hair . Get going : you know where I 'll be .
And I swear by my youth and innocence that I 've only got one heart and one love to give , and that I 've never given them to a woman and never will . So goodbye , my lady . I wo n't ever come to complain about my lord 's love for you again .
Well , that one , I think , is young Petruchio .
I 'm your wife , your true and loyal wife .
What 's she like ?
Send Toby away , please . He talks nothing but nonsense .
This stormy night will turn us all into fools and madmen .
More and more light . More and more pain for us .
Young gentleman , you are too bold for your age . You have seen the cruel proof of this man 's strength . If you took a good look at yourself , or if you thought about this more carefully , your fear would teach you to act more cautiously . We beg you , for your own sake , to respect your safety and give up .
Let 's do it . I know where we 'll find him this morning .
Come this way , my lord . The castle has been surrendered without a fight . Macbeth 's soldiers are fighting on both sides . Our noblemen are battling bravely . The victory is almost yours , and it seems like there 's not much left to do .
Where is Montjoy , the herald ? Send him on his way quickly . Tell him to greet the king of England with our sharp defiance . Rise , princes , and , with a spirit of honor more sharply edged than your swords , rush to the battlefield : Charles Delabreth , High Constable of France ; you dukes of Orleans , Bourbon , Berri , Alencon , Brabant , Bar , and Burgundy ; Jaques Chatillon , Rambures , Vaudemont , Beaumont , Grandpre , Roussi , and Fauconberg , Foix , Lestrale , Bouciqualt , and Charolois . High dukes , great princes , barons , lords and knights -- for the sake of the great positions you hold , rid yourselves of this great shame . Stop Harry of England , who is now sweeping through our land with banners drenched in the French blood he spilled at Harfleur . Rush on his army the way the melting snow of the Alps spits on the low valleys below them . Descend on him : you have power enough . And bring him into Rouen as our prisoner .
No , and she swears she never will . That 's what 's driving her crazy .
How not nice to see you , Titania .
Hey , look over there ! Here comes one of his spirits to torture me for taking so long to bring the wood back . I 'll lie down and hide . Maybe he wo n't see me .
He drinks like this every night before he goes to sleep . He 'd stay up all night and all day if he did n't drink himself to sleep .
Here lies Hero , The heroic maiden killed by slanderous words . To repay her for her troubles , Death Gives her undying fame . So the life that died with shame Lives on with fame .
Gentlemen , on to the bridal dinner . I see a woman may be made a fool of if she does n't have nerve enough to stand up for herself .
Where 's Metellus Cimber ? He should go up and offer his petition to Caesar now .
Let 's go .
Give me that boy and I 'll come with you .
Well then , leave quietly , and let the child 's crying wake up the nurse . The ewe that does n't go to her lamb when it baas will never tend to another animal 's child .
You should n't talk about him like that ! He plays the violin and speaks three or four languages word for word without a dictionary . He has all of nature 's best gifts .
I swear I thought you meant you 'd been hurt physically . Your physical health matters more than your reputation . A reputation is a useless and fake quality that others impose on us . You have n't lost it unless you think you have . There are lots of ways to get on the general 's good side again . You 've been discharged because he 's angry , and because he 's obliged to do so for policy reasons , not because he dislikes you . He 's got to beat up the weak to frighten the strong . Go to him , petition him . He 'll change his mind .
Only my free will -- nothing else . What little means I have , I 'll use against you .
I guessed that already when I guessed you were in love .
All right , I 'll go get things ready .
Good morning , pretty ones . Tell me , if you know : where in this forest is there a shepherd 's cottage surrounded by olive trees ?
Listen , my lord . For me , I would love nothing more than to spend my old age in peace and quiet . I protest : I did not seek out this day of aggression .
These are unnatural events . They get stranger all the time . -- Tell me , how did you get here ?
Only if the hearer is a fool or a coward . Go on . As far as I 'm concerned , what 's past is done . It 's like this : as long as a person tells me the truth , even though it means my death , I will listen as though he praised me .
Well , I know that two of them are the biggest cowards who ever turned and ran . As for the third , if he fights even a second longer than is absolutely necessary , I promise to never fight again . The best part about this joke will be listening to the outlandish lies this fat clown will tell when we meet for dinner -- how he fought at least thirty men , how he defended himself , how he got hit , what he endured . The funniest part will be when we call him on it .
Is my place only on the outskirts of your happiness ? If it 's nothing more than that , then I 'm your whore , not your wife .
At least tell me where you 're going .
Take me inside some house , Benvolio , or I 'll pass out . May a plague strike both your families ! They 've turned me into food for worms . I 'm done for . Curse your families !
But we 're not like that . We 're a different kind of spirit , and we do n't have to run away from the sunlight . I like the morning . I often wander around in the woods like a forest ranger until the sun rises in the fiery red sky over the ocean , turning the salty green water to gold . But you should hurry anyway . Do n't delay . We still have time to get all of this done before daybreak .
Just now , my lord .
Yes , sir , I 'm here .
Oh , Gertrude , let 's go . As soon as the sun sets we 'll ship him off to England . It 'll take all my diplomatic know-how to explain and excuse the murder he 's committed . Hey , Guildenstern !
I 've had very little joy as England 's queen .
Yep . He 's gone to study at the taming school .
I told you , sir , they were totally drunk , so puffed up with courage that they were getting angry at the air for blowing in their faces , and beating the ground for touching their feet -- yet even when drunk , they kept their plan firmly in mind . Then I beat my drum , at which point they pricked up their ears and opened their eyes , looking around for the source of my music . I enchanted them so thoroughly that they followed me through thorn bushes and prickly shrubs that tore up their shins . In the end I left them standing in the smelly pond behind your room , with the stinking water covering them up to their chins .
If he 's going to make trouble , do n't let him in . No way ; I have my neighbors to think about . I 'll have no troublemakers here . I 've got my good reputation to watch out for . Shut the doors ; no troublemakers are getting in here . I have n't lived this long to have trouble now . Shut the doors , please .
What is the matter here ?
Is all this true ? Or is this your way of livening up your travels -- playing jokes on people you meet on the way ?
I think you are . And I know you 're full of love and honesty , and you think carefully before you speak . That 's why these pauses of yours frighten me . If some fool were withholding things from me , I would n't think twice about it . If some lying , cheating villain acted like that , it would just be a trick . But when an honest man acts like that , you know he 's wrestling with bad thoughts and ca n't help it .
You certainly made me believe you did , my lord .
He 's having a fit and talking nonsense . I 'll give him some liquor . If he 's never drunk it before , it 'll help soothe his fever . If I can tame him , I 'll charge as much as I can get for him . He 'll bring a lot of money to the person who owns him , that 's for sure .
Brutus , your sober expression is a mask to hide the fact that you 've wronged me . And when you do --
Am I that name , Iago ?
Is this servant of yours a smart man ?
M. O.A. I. This code 's not as easy to crack as the other one . But if I shake it up a little it 'll work , because every one of those letters is in my name . But wait , there 's some prose after her poem .
I can get you five hundred ropes for that price .
Cut off their heads , take their maidenheads -- whatever . Take my remark in whichever sense you like .
Go to your tomb ! Lock yourself in and send him word that you 're dead . When a great person departs , it causes more pain than when the soul leaves the body .
Welcome , dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern . I 've wanted to see you for a long time now , but I sent for you so hastily because I need your help right away . You 've probably heard about the " change " that 's come over Hamlet -- that 's the only word for it , since inside and out he 's different from what he was before . I ca n't imagine what 's made him so unlike himself , other than his father 's death . Since you both grew up with him and are so familiar with his personality and behavior , I 'm asking you to stay a while at court and spend some time with him . See if you can get Hamlet to have some fun , and find out if there 's anything in particular that 's bothering him , so we can set about trying to fix it .
If you were sane and could urge me to take revenge , you could n't be more persuasive than you are now .
You scolded me often for loving Rosaline .
How dare you beat my servant , sir ?
My wife and I ordered him to hang Cordelia in prison and then to make it look as if she committed suicide in despair .
Are you sick , my lord ? Is that why you 're talking so wildly ?
Your lord knows what I think . I ca n't love him . I 'm sure he 's a very nice man . I know he 's noble , rich , young , and with a fine reputation . People say he 's generous , well educated , and brave , and he 's very attractive .
Give him this money and these letters , Reynaldo .
Get going , you good - for - nothing . Ca n't you hear people calling you ?
Truly , no -- no more than is reasonable .
For the love of God , sir , why are you standing here staring into space like this ?
Hermia 's not holding onto me anymore . Follow me if you 're brave enough , and we 'll fight over Helena .
Caesar , you 're not going to be killed by a traitor -- unless you kill yourself ..
You and your servant are very funny , sir . Will you come with me ? Can we finish our lunch ?
When I have praised Antony , I 've disparaged Caesar .
And I believe -- unless this brain of mine is not so politically cunning as it used to be -- that I 've found out why Hamlet 's gone crazy .
To be so unimportant in the company of important men is like having a face without any eyes .
Do so , good Messala .
You 're under arrest , sir . You hear the charges .
Welcome , Publius . What , Brutus ? Are you up this early too ? Good morning , Casca . Caius Ligarius , I was never your enemy so much as the sickness that 's made you so thin . What time is it ?
I will . And I 'll find out what she thinks about marriage early tomorrow . Tonight she is shut up in her room , alone with her sadness .
The handkerchief !
My God , they 've given me a lot to drink .
A false conclusion . I hate your logic as much as I hate an empty drinking cup . Staying up after midnight means that you go to bed after midnight , in the wee hours of the morning , which is early . So it 's like going to bed early . Is n't everybody made up of the four elements -- earth , water , fire , and air ?
And such pretty eyes ! Like an invitation .
There was a lover and his girl , With a hey , and a ho , and a hey - nonny - no , Who walked through the cornfield In the springtime , the only proper wedding time , The time when birds sing , Hey ding - a - ding - ding . Sweet lovers love the spring . Between the acres of rye ,
What do you mean by " furniture " ?
Here , sir !
Ha , ha , ha ! You are funny , sir . You are funny . I 've got to hand it to you . Francis Feeble !
Where 's England ?
It 's true . The Duke 's in a meeting right now , and he 's sent for you too .
And I regret having bragged to the messenger about how my enemies were being butchered at Pomfret while I , as I said , was in good standing with Richard . Oh Margaret , Margaret , your heavy curse has now landed on poor Hastings 's miserable head !
My lord , I was n't thinking anything like that .
That 's how we 'll do it , then . When important people start to show signs of insanity , you have to watch them closely .
Please , Harry , get out of here : you 're bleeding too heavily . John of Lancaster , go with him .
Yes , my good lord , your citizens beg you .
Please , dear , come here .
Why speak longer than you have to ? That 's like building a bridge wider than the river it crosses . Whatever gets the job done is best . You love Hero ; that 's all I need to know to want to find a remedy . They 're going to have a costume party with dancing tonight . I 'll disguise myself as you and pour out " my " feelings to Hero , taking her prisoner with the force of my love story . Then I 'll talk to her father . And in the end , she 's yours ! Let 's get started right away .
Let me shake your hand . I 've never been your enemy . I 've seen you fight and envied your skill .
Give me your hand .
Good lord ! What evil things were done to us that we were driven here ? Or was it a blessing that we came here ?
Here comes the man who shares my birthday . What is it ? How is it that you 've come back so soon ?
Did you ever see the sun kiss a dish of butter ? The tender-hearted sun , melting the butter with its sweet words ! If you have , then take a look at Falstaff .
May God give you the power of persuasion and him the good sense to listen , so that what you say will affect him and what he hears will sink in . This way , the true prince will turn into false thief , just for laughs . After all , all the poor , little vices of the age need encouragement . So long ; you 'll find me in Eastcheap .
It 's too bad he killed them . What good would it have done those men to kill Duncan ?
Get out of here , you punk !
Come come , Antipholus . We 're late for lunch .
Oh no ! Hamlet 's gone completely crazy .
Where 's your conscience now ?
We 're in God 's hands , brother , not in theirs . March to the bridge . Night is approaching . We 'll set up camp across the river and continue on tomorrow . Give the order to march .
This is my niece 's maid .
What have you done , gentlemen ? This educated constable is too brilliant for me to understand . What is your crime ?
Your words have moved me , and maybe it 'll do some good . But go on . You look like you have something more to say .
Is this how strangers are treated here ? You harass and abuse them?- -This is unbelievable !
Very wise .
My friends , I 've got some amazing things to tell you -- but do n't ask me to tell you what . I swear by my Athenian citizenship that I wo n't tell you anything . I 'll tell you everything exactly as it happened .
If I 'm a wasp , look out for my stinger .
Do n't let that lawyer ever come near my house ! Since he has the jewel I loved , which you swore you 'd keep forever , I 'll be as generous as you were to him . I wo n't deny him anything of mine , including my own body and my husband 's bed . I 'll recognize him all right , I 'm sure of it . So do n't spend one night away from this house . Watch me like a hawk . If you do n't , if I 'm left alone , I swear I 'll have that legal expert as my bedfellow .
A curse on all cowards , I say , and revenge on them , too ! Amen to that ! Give me some wine , boy . I 'm not going to keep up this way of life much longer . I 'll knit socks , mend them , and fix their feet . A curse on all cowards ! Give me a cup of wine , you lowlife ! Is n't there any honesty left in this world ?
Then who were you working for when you killed brave , young Prince Edward ?
tries to help Cassio , the more she 'll shake Othello 's confidence in her . And that 's how I 'll turn her good intentions into a big trap to snag them all .
Here , you goddamn incest - breeding Danish murderer , drink this . Is your little pearl in there ? Follow my mother .
And what if he wo n't stop ?
An illicit kiss !
Cut my corset laces , Charmian , so I can breathe . Hurry ! No , leave it alone . I waver easily between sickness and health . Just as Antony loves .
Yes , or else someone will have to come in carrying a bundle of sticks and a lantern and say he 's come to disfigure , or represent , the character of Moonshine , because the man in the moon is supposed to carry sticks and a lantern . But there 's still another problem : we need to have a wall in the big hall , because according to the story , Pyramus and Thisbe talked through a little hole in a wall .
I 'm up for anything . Right now , I 'm feeling all the moods that anyone has ever felt , from the old days of Adam to this young age , right now , at twelve o'clock midnight .
All hail , Macbeth ! Hail to you , thane of Glamis !
Clever , very clever . Well , go along now . You 'd be the funniest person in Illyria ... if Sir Toby ever stopped drinking .
For me the world is just the world , Gratiano -- a stage where every person has a part to play . I play a sad one .
All right . If you like , Brakenbury , you can listen to anything we say . We 're not saying anything treasonous , man . We say the king is wise and good , and his noble queen is getting old , pretty , and not jealous . And that Mr. Shore 's wife has nice feet , cherry lips , pretty eyes , and a very pleasant way of expressing herself . And , finally , that the queen 's relatives have all been elevated in rank . What do you think ? Is there anything inaccurate in that ?
I would n't change my situation for anything . You 're lucky , my lord , to be able to see the peace and sweetness even in what bad luck has brought you .
Great Queen Juno is coming . I know her by her walk .
Why did I just send you home ?
Then off you go . When you 've finished , you 'll be a happy man . Go immediately , and do exactly as I wrote down .
Have you completely forgotten your duty as a husband ? Antipholus , your marriage is still fresh and new , like the springtime -- have the young shoots of your love already started to wither ? Is the building of your love already in ruins ? If you married my sister for her wealth , then for her wealth 's sake , treat her with more kindness . Or if your affection has already strayed to another woman , at least be stealthy about it . Hide your false love , blindfold yourself so my sister cannot read your faithlessness in your eyes . Watch what you say , and do n't let your own words give away your shame . Look sweet and act kindly -- be attractive in your disloyalty . Disguise your misbehavior as integrity , and behave properly even if your heart is tainted . Though you are sinful , carry yourself like a holy saint . Be false in secret : why does she need to know ? What foolish thief brags about his crimes ? It 's doubly wrong to cheat on your wife and then let her see the offense in your eyes . When you do something shameful , it 's possible to put a good spin on it , but bad deeds are made worse by speaking of them . Alas , poor women ! We 're so gullible , we believe it when you say you love us . Even if you love someone else in your heart , make it appear as if you love us . We follow in your orbit , and you have the power to move us . So , my sweet brother - in - law , go inside . Comfort my sister , cheer her up , call her " wife . " It 's a holy thing to lie a little when sweet flattery can smooth over trouble .
That banishment is worse than the murder of ten thousand Tybalts . Tybalt 's death would be bad enough if that was all . Maybe pain likes to have company and ca n't come without bringing more pain . It would have been better if , after she said , " Tybalt 's dead , " she told me my mother or my father , or both , were gone . That would have made me make the normal cries of sadness . But to say that Tybalt 's dead and then say , " Romeo has been banished . " To say that is like saying that my father , my mother , Tybalt , Romeo , and Juliet have all been killed , they 're all dead . " Romeo has been banished . " That news brings infinite death . No words can express the pain . Where are my father and my mother , Nurse ?
My God , who knows ?
You , fellow , step out of the crowd . This is Caesar you 're looking at .
Sweet Jesus , you 're in such a hurry ! Ca n't you wait for a moment ? Do n't you see that I 'm out of breath ?
Be quiet for a while . --Robin , take off his donkey head . --Titania , get the fairies to play some music , and make these five people sleep more soundly than humans have ever slept before .
Madam , please be patient . I 'll read it to you . " You may wonder if the stars are fire , You may wonder if the sun moves across the sky . You may wonder if the truth is a liar , But never wonder if I love . Oh , Ophelia , I 'm bad at poetry . I ca n't put my feelings into verse , but please believe I love you best , oh , best of all . Believe it . Yours forever , my dearest one , as long as I live -- still chugging along , Hamlet . " Dutifully and obediently my daughter showed me this letter , and more like it . She 's told me all about how Hamlet has been courting her -- all the details of where , and what he said , and when .
Well , I 've begun my reign with a carefully thought-out plan , and I have every hope of succeeding . My falcon is now hungry and unfed and must not be given enough to eat until she comes to me , for if her hunger is satisfied , she 'll pay no attention to the bait . I have another plan to make my bird come to me and recognize her owner 's call is to keep her from sleeping --
In a minute , sir .
Well , onward , then . That 's how things should be -- straight and smooth . But , hang on ! I hear someone coming .
His only other choice is to be damned for cheating the devil .
You have . I knew that would be your answer . Well , for your good looks , sir , thank God and do n't boast about it . As for your reading and writing , use those skills when you ca n't use your looks . You 're thought to be the most senseless and fit man here , so you will carry the lantern and be constable . This is your assignment :
Who 's knocking so loudly on the door ? Francis , go see .
The seas may threaten us , but they show mercy sometimes too . I cursed them for no reason .
Okay , but please not before me . The lieutenant has to get to heaven before the ensign . But let 's stop this drinking and get down to business . --God forgive our sins ! --Gentlemen , let 's get down to business . By the way , I do n't want anyone thinking I 'm drunk . This is my ensign . This is my right hand , and this is my left hand . I 'm not drunk . I can stand well enough , and I can speak just fine .
It would be a terrible event no matter where it happened . Dear Macduff , I beg you , tell us you were lying and say it is n't so .
But what about Cicero ? Should we see what he thinks ? I think he will stand strong with us .
Well then , you must be in love .
And I 'll swear that he loves her . Here 's a clumsy sonnet , in Benedick 's handwriting , dedicated to Beatrice .
You should know , noble Pompey , that although the gods may delay action , that does n't mean they will necessarily refuse their help .
Humble as I am , I represent Antony . Until recently , I was as unimportant to his affairs as the morning dew is to the wide ocean .
I swear , this is how it always is . You two even see each other without fighting . You 're as hot as dry toast , you ca n't stand each other 's bad qualities . Good grief ! But one of you has to bear the burden , and that 's you , Doll . You 're the weaker sex , the empty vessel .
Is there more work to do ? Since you 're giving me new assignments , let me remind you what you promised me but have n't come through with yet .
Who 's the spokesman for Edmund , Earl of Gloucester ?
But in the same way that violent storms always come just as spring appears , our success against Macdonwald created new problems for us . Listen to this , King : as soon as we sent those Irish soldiers running for cover , the Norwegian king saw his chance to attack us with fresh troops and shiny weapons .
So be it .
Oh , Tranio , what a cruel father he is . Still , did you notice how ready he was to hire good tutors for her ?
Tell me , who is this knight ?
I do n't know who had him arrested , but the man that arrested him was in a suit of leather . Mistress , will you send him bail ? The money in the desk ?
Oh , a thousand times worse , a thousand times -- and what a sweet personality she has !
Listen to our horses neighing , longing to be working .
I ca n't blame you , old lord . I 'm so tired myself that it 's bringing me down . Sit down and rest . I 'm losing hope . The one we 're looking for is dead . We 're searching on land , but he 's lost in the sea . We have to give up and let him go .
And what will happen if I do n't ?
It was carried to Colmekill to be placed in the tomb of his ancestors , where their bones are kept safe .
Shall I quote you in those exact words , sir ?
Thank the lord for alliances ! So everyone goes off into the world except me , who stays in because I 'm sunburned . I should sit in the corner and sing that song , " Heigh-Ho for a Husband ! "
My lord , what you 've said makes clear you have a conscience , but your objections are trivial , given the circumstances . You say that Prince Edward is your brother 's son . We agree , but not by your brother 's wife . King Edward was going to marry Lady Lucy -- your mother can vouch for that -- and then he was betrothed to Bona , the King of France 's sister - in - law . But both of these were put off by Elizabeth Grey , a careworn mother of many children who had once been a beauty but was now a stressed-out widow long past her prime . Nevertheless , under pretence of asking a favor of him , she attracted his lustful eye and seduced him so thoroughly that he completely debased himself , committing adultery with her . It resulted in this Edward , whom we 're polite enough to call " Prince . " Out of respect for the living , I 'll restrain myself from telling you everything . But , my good lord , if you do n't care about this country , at least use your own pure lineage to rescue us from the current corruption of the royal line .
Your wit is so forceful , it frightens the very meaning out of your words . But I will tell you this very plainly : I have challenged Claudio , and either he 'll accept the challenge or admit he 's a coward . Now , tell me -- which of my bad qualities did you fall in love with first ?
The more simpleminded they are , the sooner they lose their hair . But they have a good time doing so .
Where have you been hiding ? How did you know what happened to your poor father ?
Yes , believe me , if I had such risky business ventures in other countries , I 'd be sad too . I 'd worry about it every second . I 'd constantly be tossing blades of grass into the air to find out which way the wind was blowing . I 'd be peering over maps to figure out the best ports , piers , and waterways . Everything that made me worry about my ships would make me sad .
We 're ready for both , my lord .
We 'll have celebration feasts for each other before we go our separate ways . Let 's draw lots to see who will host the first one .
I hope they do n't attack us now .
No , sir , you 're wrong ; we kept the song 's time , we did n't lose any .
He must be wearing this crazy outfit for some reason . I 'll try to persuade him to put on something more appropriate before going to the church , if it 's at all possible .
My beautiful Rosalind , I 'm only an hour late .
With all my heart . --Three or four of you go welcome him . --In the meantime , I 'll read Bellario 's letter out loud . " I 've received your letter but I 'm very sick at the moment . As it happened , when your messenger came , a young lawyer from Rome was visiting me . His name is Balthazar . I told him about the case of the Jew and Antonio the merchant , and we consulted many books together . He knows my legal opinions about this matter , and he has his own expert opinions as well . I 'm sending him in my place to answer your request for someone to act as judge in this matter . Please do n't underestimate him because he 's so young . I never knew such a young man with such a mature head . I leave him to you . When you put him to the test , you 'll see how wonderful he really is . You hear what the wise and educated Bellario writes . "
And the boy who I sent to work for Falstaff . He was a normal boy when I sent him , and now look : the fat bastard 's turned him into an ape .
I 'll stand guard with you tonight . Maybe it 'll come again .
Patience herself would be shocked by this letter and become feisty . If I can take this , I can take anything . She says I 'm not handsome and have no manners . She says I 'm arrogant and that she could n't love me even if men were as rare as the mythical phoenix . Honestly ! I 'm not hunting after her love . Why would she write this way to me ? Tell the truth , shepherd : you wrote this letter .
Mister Challenger , the princess wants to speak to you .
Watch me : stroke your chins and swear by your beards that I am a knave .
It is the appropriate time . Good sir , I hear for certain , and I tell you truthfully , that the Archbishop of York has raised a powerful army . He motivates his men with both his earthly and his spiritual powers . My lord , your son commanded only his soldiers ' bodies . The word " rebellion " frightened them , separating their bodies from their hearts . It caused them to fight timidly , hesitantly , as though they were taking medicine : their weapons seemed to be on our side , but their spirits and souls were frozen , like fish in an icy pond . But now , the Archbishop turns our rebellion into a religious cause . Everyone believes he 's a righteous and holy man , and they follow him not only in body but also in mind . He enhances his cause by preaching about the blood of good King Richard , which was spilled at Pomfret Castle . The Archbishop claims that he derives his authority from heaven ; tells the men that the whole country is bleeding , gasping for life under the terrible leadership of Bolingbroke . And so men from every walk of life flock like sheep to follow him .
I 'd rather hear your reaction to this first .
Would you like to be king of the entire world ? Now I 've said it twice .
Yes , we 've been cheated out of our lives by a bunch of drunken , incompetent sailors . This bigmouth jerk here -- I hope you drown ten times over !
He 's a wicked , horrible criminal . Take the Moor 's sword and guard the door from the outside . Kill him rather than let him leave this room . I 'm going after Iago . He 's a horrid criminal .
Letters , my lord , from Hamlet . This one 's for Your Highness , this one for the queen .
Where are the evil men who started this fight ?
She could even what ?
Nicely done , and organized in just the way he 'll understand . My God , he manages to say the same thing six different ways .
I know that Regan will taste just like Goneril -- both of them sour crabapples . Do you know why the nose is in the middle of a person 's face ?
Seriously ? You mean I should groan and tell you ?
Yes , if it does n't stand still .
Orlando sends his regards to you both , and he sends this bloody handkerchief to the boy he calls " his Rosalind . " Is that you ?
And we fairies , who run away from the sun just like the goddess of the night , following darkness like a dream , are getting antsy . But I 'm here to make sure that not even a mouse disturbs this blessed house . I 've been sent to clean house a bit before the fairies come .
But , sir , here comes your servant . Better fill him in .
No , he loves and cherishes me . Go to him from me .
But sir --
You wanted to be king of the island , sir ?
So what 's the story , old boy ?
No , she 's a devil -- a devil , I tell you . The devil 's grandmother .
for - nothing once in a while , then obviously you do n't think very much of me . That good-for-nothing is my good friend , sir . So I ask you , please : rule in his favor .
Sir John Falstaff , I 'd like a word with you .
Well , hurry up and confess . Be quick about it . I 'll wait over here . I do n't want to kill you before you 've readied your soul . No , I do n't want to send your soul to hell when I kill you .
Yes , yes , that was Bassanio . I think that was his name .
May you only give birth to male children , because your fearless spirit should create nothing that is n't masculine . Once we have covered the two servants with blood , and used their daggers to kill , wo n't people believe that they were the culprits ?
Good Prince , say something !
" Confess and love " is more like it . Oh , torture 's fun when my torturer tells me what I have to say to go free ! But let me try my luck on the boxes .
I just came from a great feast where Leonato is entertaining the Prince , your brother . I can give you information about an intended marriage .
The SECOND APPARITION descends .
Do n't damn yourself . You , fair lady , are both my day and my life .
" The witches met me on the day of my victory in battle , and I have since learned that they have supernatural knowledge . When I tried desperately to question them further , they vanished into thin air . While I stood spellbound , messengers from the king arrived and greeted me as the thane of Cawdor , which is precisely how the weird sisters had saluted me before calling me ' the future king ! ' I thought I should tell you this news , my dearest partner in greatness , so that you could rejoice along with me about the greatness that is promised to us . Keep it secret , and farewell . "
Yes , very well , my lord . Once the music has ended , we 'll give him more than he bargained for .
Well , your brother 's love , our duty , and your own crimes make us kill you .
Stop hollering , man ! I 'm here .
I look forward to getting to know you better .
Was your rebellion just and honorable ?
Even two thousand men and twenty - thousand ducats are just the beginning of what it will cost to settle this pointless matter . This is what happens when countries have too much money and peace . This quarrel is like an abcess that grows inside someone until it bursts and kills them , and no one knows why . Thank you very much for the information , sir .
Yes , you 're right , her name is Margery . If you 're Launcelot , then you 're my own flesh and blood . My Lord , what a bushy beard you have ! You 've got more hair on your chin than Dobbin my horse has in his tail .
Roderigo !
And when I lived , I was your other wife . And when you loved me , you were my other husband .
My God ! Everything I see shows me how wrong I am and tells me to hurry up and get on with my revenge . What is a human being if he just eats and sleeps ? Nothing more than a beast . God did n't create us with such a huge power of thought and a divine capacity for reason in order for us not to use them . Now , whether it 's animal-like mindlessness , or the cowardly hesitation
What , has the King already made camp ?
Where the devil can Romeo be ? Did n't he come home last night ?
And here 's Regan , whose grotesque face betrays her twisted heart . Stop her ! Guards , guards , use your weapons . Fire ! The courtroom is in chaos . You corrupt judge , why did you let her escape ?
This Davy does a lot for you . He 's your right-hand man as well as your steward .
And then ?
Wait a moment . He 's waking up .
If I were , I would n't need to ask you what happened .
Although many people said she looked like me , she was considered beautiful . And though I ca n't believe everything people said about her beauty , I 'll be so bold as to say she had a beautiful mind . Even those who were jealous of her would have to admit that . She 's been drowned in salty sea water , and now my salty tears are about to drown her memory all over again .
Foolish dogs , blindly running straight toward a Russian bear only to have their heads crushed like rotten apples . You might just as well say , " That 's a valiant flea that dares to eat its breakfast on the lip of a lion . "
Bad people ca n't appreciate wisdom or goodness . They only like things as bad as themselves . What have you two sisters done ? You 're tigers , not daughters . Barbaric degenerates , you 've driven insane a kindly old father , whom even an angry bear would treat gent-ly . Could my good brother - in - law - - a man to whom the
Lucillius ! I 'd like a word with you .
No , someone has to give her away or the marriage is n't legal .
Now I 'll go inside and write out a secret order to keep Clarence 's brats out of sight and to forbid anyone whatsoever from seeing King Edward 's sons .
Meanwhile , we 're the ones who need you . My brother is imprisoned because of you , I am disgraced , and the nobility are held in contempt while those who two days ago were n't worth a dime have suddenly been promoted .
Oh , I have no idea what she 's saying !
Is our whole dissembly here ?
Yes , you 're absolutely right . So , without further ado , the best thing to do now is probably just to shake hands and go our separate ways . You go and take care of your business , and I 'll go and pray .
Sir , this is a poor , insane soul . She 's been saying all over town that her oldest son looks just like you . She was once rich , but poverty has driven her crazy . Now , as for these two foolish officers , I would like to press charges against them .
" Into God 's hands . From my house , if I had a house -- "
Oh , but these are our friends . Just one glass . I 'll do most of the drinking for you .
What men have you lost , Fluellen ?
By Isis , I 'll give you bloody teeth if you ever compare Caesar with Antony , my best man among men .
About eight or ten .
Sweet saint , for goodness 's sake , do n't be so angry .
I would have to say from fear .
Absolutely everything . And , moreover , God saw Benedick when he was hid in the garden .
come within ten miles of me . I 'll grant you a modest allowance to live on , so that poverty will not lead you into evil . When I hear that you have reformed your ways , I will promote you as you deserve . It 's your job to see this order carried out . Let 's go .
-- in order to fight on Edward 's side to help him win the crown . And now he is rewarded by being thrown in prison ! I wish to God my heart were made of stone , like Edward 's is . Or I wish Edward 's were soft and full of feeling , as mine is , so that he would let Clarence go . I am too childish , too innocent , for this world .
Then Caesar and he will always be united .
Soon enough . But I have the meantime . A human life is hardly long enough to count to one in . But I really feel bad , Horatio , about losing control of myself with Laertes . His situation is very much like my own . I 'll be nice to him . It was just that the showiness of his grief sent me into a fury .
Let 's go to a flatter area where we can fight more easily .
You do n't have to worry about any of these lords , my lady . They 've all told me what they want , which is to go back home and give up on you -- unless there was some other way to win you than your father 's pick - the - box test .
This castle is in a pleasant place . The air is sweet and appeals to my refined senses .
Tell me when my cue comes , and I 'll say my line . My next cue is " Most handsome Pyramus . " Hey ! Peter Quince ? Flute the bellows - repairman ? Snout the handyman ? Starveling ? My God , they 've all run away and left me sleeping here ? What a weird dream I had . --You ca n't even describe such a weird dream . You 'd be an ass if you even tried to explain it . I thought I was -- no , nobody can even describe what I was . I thought I was , I thought I had -- but a person would be an idiot to try to say what I thought I had . No eye has ever heard , no ear has ever seen , no hand has tasted , or tongue felt , or heart described what my dream was like . I 'll get Peter Quince to write this dream down as a ballad .
So , my headstrong daughter , where have you been ?
But how could you put an official seal on it ?
Yes , I remember .
before God , Kate , I cannot turn pale on purpose or gasp out fancy phrases , and I have no gift for clever declarations , only blunt oaths , which I never use till I 'm asked and never break no matter who asks me . If you can love a man of this temperament , Kate , whose face a sunburn would n't make any worse and who never looks in the mirror to admire himself , let your eye improve me . I speak to you as a plain soldier . If you can love me for this , take me . If not , to tell you I will die is true , but not for love , by God . And yet I do love you . So take for life a fellow of pure and plain faithfulness . He 's bound to be true to you as he wo n't be up to flirting with other women . These chatty fellows who can rhyme their way into a lady 's good graces always reason themselves out again . Look , a talker is just a gabber ; a poem is just a rhyme . A good leg will shrink , a straight back stoop , a black beard turn white , a curly head grow bald , an attractive face grow wrinkled and a pretty eye hollow . But a good heart , Kate , is the sun and the moon , or , rather , the sun , and not the moon , for it goes on shining brightly forever . If you would have such a man , take me . Take me and get a soldier ; take a soldier and get a king . So what do you say to my suit ? Speak , my fair one , and speak fairly , I beg you .
Who 's there ?
He said that the urine itself was good , healthy urine , but that the man who owned it probably had more diseases than he could tell .
What ?
Sweet boy , I 'd rather hear you scold me for a whole year than this man woo me for a minute .
Let this solemn melody comfort your fevered minds , which are now useless , seething inside your skulls . --All of you stand there in my spell . -- Good Gonzalo , you honorable man , my eyes weep for you , since I feel what you must feel now . The spell is breaking gradually , and just as dawn creeps in and melts away the darkness , they will slowly return to their senses . -- Oh , my dear Gonzalo , you 're my savior and loyal to your lord , I 'll reward you fully , not just with praise but with actions too . --
We 'll come find you in the bedroom . Go on .
But we already swore , sir .
It 's clear , every man must take responsibility for the manner of his own death . The king is not responsible for it .
Come here , Sir Seacole . God has blessed you with a good name . To be good-looking is a matter of luck , but to read and write is a natural gift .
Being satisfied with a job well done is payment enough . In saving you I consider myself well paid . My thoughts were never on money . I hope you 'll recognize me when we meet again . I wish you well . Now , I 've got to go .
Instead of your three thousand ducats , here are six thousand .
I mean I will live on whatever I get , like birds do .
Have you heard this , Cassio ?
There were no primary ones . All of women 's faults are as alike as one half - pence is to another . Each of a woman 's faults seems monstrous until you 're presented with the next one , which is just as bad .
It was funny when you and Antony bet on who could catch the first fish . You had a diver put a salted fish on his hook . He was so excited as he hurried to pull it in !
From then on we 'll turn our backs on Athens . We 'll look for new friends and keep the company of strangers . Goodbye , old friend . Pray for us , and I hope you win over Demetrius ! --Keep your promise , Lysander . We need to stay away from each other until midnight tomorrow .
Please , sir , be kind to me and tell me .
What gold is this ? Who 's this Adam you speak of ?
What disease do you have ?
If Brutus will swear that Antony may come to him safely and be convinced that Caesar deserved to be killed , Mark Antony will love dead Caesar not nearly as much as living Brutus , and with true faith he 'll follow the destiny and affairs of noble Brutus through the difficulties of this unprecedented state of affairs . " That 's what my master , Antony , says .
A nasty cold , sir . A cough , sir . I caught it when I was ringing the church bells in honor of the King 's coro-nation .
Tyrrel , come back shortly after dinner and tell me the details of their deaths . In the meantime , think about how I can do you good and give you what you want . See you soon .
I 'm glad I found this handkerchief . It 's the first keepsake the Moor gave her . My stubborn husband has asked me to steal it a
Blow the trumpet !
I swear to you by my virginity at age twelve , I already told her to come . Come on ! Where is she ? What is she doing ? What , Juliet !
The danger 's over : let 's stop here .
Stop there , stop there .
Do n't talk about standing together . --Publius , cheer up . We do n't intend any harm to you , nor to anyone else . Tell them this , Publius .
Why did I come here if not for that ? Do you think a little burst of noise can intimidate me --I , who have heard lions roar ? I , who have survived storms at sea where the winds raged like wild animals ? I , who have heard the rumble of guns in battle -- and thunder in the sky .
Good - bye .
I ca n't , my lord .
Not many , and no one important .
They call us drunks and insult our noble titles . And our drunkenness does detract from our achievements , as great as they are , and lessens our reputations . It 's just like what happens to certain people who have some birth defect , or some weird habit or compulsion that changes them completely . It happens sometimes that one little defect in these people , as wonderful and talented as they may be , will make them look completely bad to other people . A tiny spot of evil casts doubt on their good qualities and ruins their reputations .
Good afternoon , fair lady .
As a favor to me ?
Why , he told me so himself , and he said he did n't care who knew it .
with the same accessories . Oh , if it turns out to be true that he survived , then that storm was kind , and the ocean was full of love !
Will the moon be shining on the night we 're performing our play ?
If beauty , wisdom , and modesty can settle Antony 's restless heart , Octavia will be the best thing that has ever happened to him .
I 've sent for him . He says he 'll come . What kind of food should I serve him ? What presents should I give him ? It 's easier to buy young people than to beg or borrow them . Oh , I 'm talking too loud . --Where 's Malvolio ? He 's very serious , which is right for someone in mourning like me . Where is Malvolio ?
Are you really saying these things , or am I dreaming ?
Good heavens , I 'd never do that with people watching . Is that really what you meant ?
Tell us what you know about this affair .
I hate these crazy , affected guys who use foreign phrases and newfangled expressions . I hate their strange manners and their weird accents ! I hate it when they say , " By Jesus , this is a very good blade , a very brave man , a very good whore . " Is n't this a sad thing , my good man ? Why should we put up with these foreign buzzards , these fashionmongers , these guys who say " pardon me , " these guys who care so much about manners that they ca n't kick back on a bench without whining ? " Oh , my aching bones ! "
Would you rather that Caesar were living and we would all go to our graves as slaves , or that Caesar were dead and we all lived as free men ? I weep for Caesar in that he was good to me . I rejoice in his good fortune . I honor him for being brave . But his ambition -- for that , I killed him . There are tears for his love , joy for his fortune , honor for his bravery , and death for his ambition . Who here is so low that he wants to be a slave ? If there are any , speak , for it is he whom I 've offended . Who here is so barbarous that he does n't want to be a Roman ? If there are any , speak , for it is he whom I 've offended . Who here is so vile that he does n't love his country ? If there are any , speak , for it is he whom I have offended . I will pause for a reply .
What have you done ? Carved it up and down like an apple tart ? Snip and snip and cut and slash -- it 's got more holes than a sieve ! What in the world do you call this , tailor !
The law fully authorizes the penalty , which you have to pay according to the contract .
Has any man ever had to put up with what I do ? Now what ?
I do n't hear anything , madam .
Oh , sad day !
Greetings to you , rainbow messenger , who never disobeys Juno , wife of Jupiter ; with your golden wings you sprinkle dewdrops and refreshing showers on my flowers , and arch your colored bow over my wooded fields and grassy meadows , like a beautiful scarf to decorate my earth . Why has your queen , Juno , called me here to this grassy spot ?
Alright , then I 'll see you at Philippi .
How sorrowful ! Sir , where 's the self-control you used to be so proud of ?
Give my compliments to your lady .
What is she saying , my lord ?
What 's going on ? Why is that terrifying trumpet calling together everyone who 's sleeping in the house ? Speak up and tell me !
No , he refused it publicly , in open court . He will have only justice and his penalty .
My wit 's in my scabbard . Should I unsheath it ?
I have your hostages and you have mine . Let 's talk before we fight . In order to conduct negotiations in safety , warring sides exchanged important persons and held the hostages until negotiations were complete.I have your hostages and you have mine . Let 's talk before we fight .
Very well .
Your bedroom .
You know from my clothing who I am .
I 'm sorry , but it 's the truth . Macbeth is coming . He sent a messenger ahead of him who arrived here so out of breath that he could barely speak his message .
Yes , sir , and I 'll leave when you ask me to .
Be patient . I 'm not going to let him leave until I 've tried every means to cure him . With my healthful potions , drugs , and holy prayers , I 'll make him a complete man again . Healing is part and parcel of my religious vows ; it is a charitable duty my order performs . Therefore , depart , and leave him here with me .
What ? Is the old King dead ?
No , if you 're not done yet , keep going . We 'll wait until you 're ready .
Listen here , Mistress Doll .
I allow this wart to be as familiar with me as my dog , and he holds onto his privileged position . Listen to how he writes .
Yes , but that makes me love you even more . I 'm your little dog , Demetrius . The more you beat me , the more I 'll love you . Treat me like you would treat a dog -- kick me , hit me , neglect me , try to lose me . Just let me follow behind you , even though I 'm not good enough for you . Could I ask for a worse place in your heart than to be treated as you would treat a dog ? And yet I would consider it an honor to be your dog .
We were about to have our noses snapped off by two old men with no teeth .
That 's all I ask -- and that you let me carry his body to the marketplace and , as a friend ought to do , stand on the platform and give a proper funeral oration .
My lady , should I lie in your lap ?
Your name is Lucentio , you say . Of what city , may I ask ?
Yes , it 's me .
You 're a fool . Shut up .
I 'll go as fast as I can , madam .
Gracious Queen , even Herod of Judea would n't dare look at you unless you were in a good mood .
Look , you 've woken my wife ! I 'll make you an example for the others to learn from .
Gentlemen , gentlemen --
This is the strangest story I 've ever heard .
I 'll modestly tell him what I have done in his name -- that 's the magical wording these days . I 'll write how , under his flag and with his well-paid troops , we have beaten the formerly unvanquished Parthia .
Consider it done , my lord .
Something that refers to my current state . Instead of Celia , call me Aliena .
Wait , my lord --
Well , I recognize this one , and I hereby challenge you .
Who are the actors ?
Is that Barnardo ?
Let me talk to you about your situation .
Then leave her , sir . I swear to God she 's not worth anything more than what I told you . And as for you , great King of France , I 'd never insult our friendship by encouraging you to marry a girl I hate . So I beg you to look around for a better match than this wretched creature that you can barely call human .
You 're worried about your ships . Your mind is out there getting tossed around on the ocean with them . But they 're fine . They 're like huge parade floats on the sea . They 're so big they look down on the smaller ships , which all have to bow and then get out of the way . Your ships fly like birds past those little boats .
Good morning , Benedick . What 's the matter ? Your face looks like the month of February -- full of frost , storms , and cloudiness .
Or like a whale .
If Moonshine 's gone before Thisbe comes back , how will she be able to see in the dark to find her lover dead ?
Nice to see you .
You wo n't pay for the glasses you smashed ?
Go ahead , then .
Now , my friendly servant , thank you .
I 'm off to experience the greatest joy of all , but still it 's sad to leave you in such a rush . Farewell .
The people have heard it already , and they 've been told of his accusations .
Grumio , get me my horse .
You 're mistaken . Richard , the duke of Gloucester , hates you .
There I 'll see only myself .
And how are you liking the shepherd 's life , Master Touchstone ?
May every star light your path .
their value when the givers turn out not to be so nice . There , my lord .
I was sure that you had n't given it to me .
And my life could still be worse . If you have the presence of mind to say , " This is the worst , " then it 's not the worst yet .
Show us the way without further delay . --Trinculo , since the king and all our comrades are drowned , we 're the heirs of this place . --Here , carry my wine bottle . --Trinculo , my buddy , we 'll get that bottle refilled soon enough .
No , you have to swear it .
No , that I do n't remember .
Sir , I leave you to your own contentment .
That 's right , if he said my ring was junk and made of copper .
What 's up , man ? How 's it going ?
If he had as many lives as he 's got hairs on his head , I would 've killed them all in revenge .
Be content . You 're in the charge of an honorable man . Do n't be afraid . You can ask for anything from my lord . His generosity flows to anyone in need . If I can tell him that you have submitted to him sweetly , he 'll request your assistance in finding ways in which he can support you .
We have in fact seen better days and been summoned to church by the ringing of the holy bell and sat at good men 's feasts and cried tears of pity -- therefore , sit down and take whatever will satisfy your needs .
You could only imitate his imperfections so well if you were the man himself . Look , you 've got his wrinkled hands . You are Antonio , you are he .
No , madam .
Will you be patient ? Will you wait awhile ? I 've said too much in telling you of it . I 'm afraid that I wrong the honorable men whose daggers have stabbed Caesar .
Ah , my lord , you would n't believe what I 've witnessed tonight !
I will , my lord .
Oh , damn everyone else ! Remarrying would be treason to my heart . Curse me if I take a second husband . When a woman takes a second husband , it 's because she 's killed off the first .
You think so ? Come on .
" When Arthur first in court " -- somebody empty the chamber pot ! " And was a worthy king " -- how are you , Mistress Doll ?
Good morning , General .
A witty mother ! Too bad about the son !
I wo n't have any proofs or any bullets . I wo n't drink any more than I feel like , not for any man .
Your father would never have agreed to this treaty , Pompey . You and I have met , sir .
What does he say ?
You know me better than that . You 're wasting your breath . All of this talk means you have doubts about my friendship . That 's worse than if you bankrupted me . Just tell me what to do , and I 'll do it . Tell me .
I wo n't deliver this letter . The young gentleman 's behavior shows that he 's sensible and has good manners . The fact that he serves as a go-between for his lord and my niece Olivia confirms this . So this letter , which is so incredibly stupid and ignorant , is n't going to scare him at all . He 'll just think an idiot wrote it . But I 'll deliver Sir Andrew 's challenge by word of mouth , describing Sir Andrew as courageous in battle and convincing the young gentleman that Sir Andrew is furious , impetuous , and a skilled fighter . This will make them both so afraid that they 'll kill each other just by looking at each other .
Yes , even if I had a thousand more pounds than that , for I hear that you are exclaimed throughout the city , and though I am only a poor man , it makes me glad to hear it .
You 're right . If we were in front of our armies , about to fight , I would do this .
The ghost is definitely something to worry about . In the high and mighty Roman Empire , just before the emperor Julius Caesar was assassinated , corpses rose out of their graves and ran through the streets of Rome speaking gibberish . There were shooting stars , and blood mixed in with the morning dew , and threatening signs on the face of the sun . The moon , which controls the tides of the sea , was so eclipsed it almost went completely out . And we 've had similar omens of terrible things to come , as if heaven and earth have joined together to warn us what 's going to happen .
Tomorrow , soldier , I 'll fight by sea and land . By the end I will either live , or else I 'll restore my honor by shedding my blood . Will you fight well ?
Maybe I should act like the Egyptian thief who kills the woman he loves before he dies ? That kind of savage jealousy sometimes seems noble . But listen to me . Since you keep denying the love I feel for you , and since I know who 's stealing my place in your heart , you can go on being cold - hearted , but I 'm going to take this boy from you . He knows his master loves you . I 'm doing this , even though he 's dear to me , because I know you love him . Come with me , boy . I 'm ready to do something extreme . I 'll sacrifice this boy I care for , just to spite a beautiful woman with a heart of stone .
Here , ma'am .
What would you like to see ? If it 's a tragedy , you 've come to the right place .
That 's what I intend to do too . Where is Gloucester ?
I hope that 's all he loses .
What is it , Iago ?
Master , should I watch the door ?
Here , my good lord .
You are to bring his daughter to the supper .
Your Highness chose to turn your back on me and my family . I must remind you , sir , that we were your first and dearest friends . For you , I quit my position under Richard , and ran day and night to meet you on the road and kiss your hand . At that time , you were far less powerful than I was . But my brother , his son , and I brought you home and ignored the danger . At Doncaster you swore an oath to us that you were not going to challenge the King ; all you wanted was your late father 's estate , the dukedom of Lancaster , and in this we promised to help you . But soon , good luck began to pour on you like rain , and a flood of greatness fell upon you . You had a swarm of advantages : you had our assistance ; and the King had been away so long ; and the country was suffering under violence ; and you seemed to have been so grievously wronged ; and difficult winds were keeping
Most mighty sovereign , you have no reason to doubt my friendship . I was never disloyal , and I never will be .
So far that every foot of distance between them seems to shout , " It 's too far for Claribel to come back to Naples . Let her stay in Tunis and give Sebastian a
The poor soul sat singing by the sycamore tree , Everyone sing the green willow , She had her hand on her breast and her head on her knee , Sing willow , willow , willow . The fresh streams ran by her and murmured her moans , Sing willow , willow , willow . Her salt tears fell from her and softened the stones , Sing willow , willow , willow . -- Put these things over there . -- Please , hurry , he 'll come right away . -- Everyone sing , a green willow must be my garland . Nobody blame him , he 's right to hate me -- No , that 's not how it goes . --Who 's knocking ?
Mine , too . I do n't understand why she 's not locked up .
Come on , just try . --By the way , has someone gone down to the harbor ?
Hail , king ! Because that 's what you are now . Look , here I have Macbeth 's cursed head . We are free from his tyranny . I see that you have the kingdom 's noblemen around you , and they 're thinking the same thing as me . I want them to join me in this loud cheer , Hail , King of Scotland !
Sirrah , what 's the Prince like ?
This door 's open . He went this way .
Now you 'll see , Lepidus , that I do n't disdain our noble ally because of a personal whim . Here 's the news from Alexandra : Antony fishes , drinks , and celebrates all night . He 's become as frivolous and self-indulgent as Ptolemy 's queen , Cleopatra . He rarely attends to his duties or acknowledges he has partners to be considered . Here 's a man who is the epitome of all the vices known to man .
And he was right . I know exactly how inhumane he was .
Enough , enough ! Mercutio , be quiet . You 're talking nonsense .
Did you call me , my lord ?
Take away this lout and whip him .
Sir John !
Let go of me .
God in heaven bless her ! My lord , you 're wrong to berate her like that .
I think Belman is just as good , my lord . He set up a howl when the scent was lost completely and twice picked it up where it was weakest . I swear he 's the better dog .
Is n't that him on the ground ?
Who wants to buy the flock and the pasture ?
If you wo n't be my father , I wo n't have any . If you wo n't be my husband , I wo n't have any . If you wo n't be my wife , I wo n't have any .
Then eat and grow fat , my sweet lady ! Come , bring me some wine . Si fortuna me tormente , sperato me contento . Are we scared of an attack ? No ! Let the devil open fire . Give me some wine , and darling , lie there . Is the party over ? What about the rest of it , the fortuna me tormente ?
Really , young men , though it was n't a very hard song to get right , the music was still all out of tune .
I am?- -I am ! I swear , I 'm shaking like a big tree leaf . I ca n't stand troublemakers .
Along with being full of lust , I 'm also incredibly greedy . If I became king , I would steal the nobles ' lands , taking jewels from one guy and houses from another . The more I had , the greedier I would grow , until I 'd invent false quarrels with my good and loyal subjects , destroying them so I could get my hands on their wealth .
Your instruments all have a nasal twang . Have they been to Naples ?
Yes , sir .
I ca n't stop being amazed by these shapes , sounds , and gestures , which express , even without saying anything , a wonderful kind of silent language .
You are lesser than Macbeth but also greater .
Stop , and eat no more .
Yes , I am the one .
No , you 'll have to excuse me .
Did you hear someone ?
Gentlemen , please , I 'd like to hear your news .
I 'll take all who served Brutus into my service . You , will you join with me ?
Help me , Lysander , help me ! Get this snake off of my chest . Oh , my God ! What a terrible dream I just had ! Lysander , look how I 'm shaking from fear . I thought a snake was eating my heart while you sat smiling and watching . Lysander ! --What , is he gone?- -Lysander , my lord ! --What , is he out of earshot ? Gone ? No answer , nothing ? Oh , God , where are you ? Say something if you can hear me . Say something , please ! I 'm almost fainting with fear . Nothing ? Then I guess you 're nowhere nearby . I 'll find you -- or die-- right away .
Hail , Caesar ! Read this schedule .
Besides , the King has expended all his energy for punishment on the recent rebellion . He has nothing left to punish with . His power is like a lion with no teeth : it can threaten , but it ca n't do any harm .
Good morning , neighbor Baptista .
With who ?
Madam , I 've come here to try to make you like him .
You and your fellow spirits did your last assignment well , and now I need your help again . Go bring them all here ; I give you power over them . Make them act quickly . I have to give this young couple here a small display of my magic powers . I 've promised them I would , and they 're expecting it .
You do n't need it yet .
Agincourt .
And one of them is the criminal Deformed . I know him ; he wears a lock of hair .
Now , by George , that really is terrible news . Oh , the king has abused his body with bad habits for a long time , and it 's finally taking its toll on him . Very sad . Where is he , in his bed ?
Yes , and his relative , too .
Very likely , my lord , very likely . But actually , sir , I have the not - listening disease ; I have the not - paying - attention sickness .
Good morning , cousin .
You must be mistaking me for someone else , sir .
First , I ask you what they 've done ; thirdly , I ask you what offense they 're charged with ; sixth and lastly , I ask you why they 've been committed here ; and , in conclusion , I ask what they 're accused of .
Oh - ho - ho , sir !
I 'm not sick if you 've prepared some honorable exploit for me .
Yes , this is true , but why do you stand there so dumbfounded ? Come , sisters , let 's cheer him up and show him our talents . I will charm the air to produce music while you all dance around like crazy , so this king will say we did our duty and entertained him .
Oh , the sixpence you gave me last Wednesday to buy leather goods for my mistress ? The saddle maker has it , sir--I did n't keep it .
Sir , Lord Bardolph told me happy news and I turned around , to come back here . But he had a faster horse , so he passed me and got here first . Another man came after him , riding hard . He was nearly exhausted from going so fast , and he stopped to give his bleeding horse a break . He asked me for directions to Chester , and I demanded to hear news from Shrewsbury . He said that the rebels had been beaten , and that Harry Percy 's spur was cold . Then he took off on his horse , leaned forward in his saddle , and jammed his heels into the animal 's side so hard that they almost disappeared . He rode so fast he seemed to be devouring the highway . He did n't stay around to answer any of my questions .
Pay a surgeon to stand by and bind his wounds , Shylock , so he does n't bleed to death .
A widow ? Do you hear that , Charmian ?
What 's your name , my dear lady ?
Were you born here ?
Was n't that letter from Jessica ?
Are you talking , you villain ?
I 'll swear by that wine bottle to be your true subject . You must be a god , since your liquor is out of this world .
You and he are both welcome , sir . As for my daughter Katherine , this much I know : she 's not for you -- more 's the pity .
My friend Cassio is dead . It 's done , because you request it . But let her live .
Are you ready to rob this man ? This man , with his leather jacket , fashionable crystal buttons , short hair , agate signet ring , dark stockings , ribboned garters , oily speech , Spanish leather pouch --
I mean a husband .
Well , a hungry guest arrives early for a feast , but a poor soldier arrives late to a battle .
Let me embrace the father of Lucentio , and then we 'll journey on to see your son , who will rejoice at your arrival .
As long as I 'm alive , I 'll be here .
Why should we care ? Time 's passing . Let 's go !
He does n't have to care . His virtue is not hidden .
I have no opinion about him . We do n't talk because we do n't understand each other . He does n't speak Latin , French , or Italian , and you know how little English I speak . He 's great - looking , but how can you talk to someone who does n't speak your language ? He was dressed so oddly too ! I think he got his jacket in Italy , his tights in France , his hat in Germany , and his behavior everywhere .
So , what 's the news on the Rialto ?
Here , most gracious king .
Cure her of that . Ca n't you treat a diseased mind ? Take away her memory of sorrow ? Use some drug to erase the troubling thoughts from her brain and ease her heart ?
Give us cups until the world spins ! Give us cups until the world spins !
Which goes on to impede his judgment .
Well , girl , you 're weeping not for his death as much as for the fact that the villain who killed him is still alive .
You 're hitting close to home there . I 'd rather cut my tongue out of my mouth than say anything bad about Michael Cassio . But I do n't think it 'll hurt him to tell the truth . This is what happened , General . Montano and I were talking when a man came running , crying for help . Cassio was chasing him with his sword out , trying to kill the guy . This gentleman stopped Cassio and told him to put away his sword . I followed the guy who was crying for help , to keep him from scaring the public . But he was fast and outran me . When I got back , I heard the swords clinking and Cassio swearing . I 'd never heard him swear before . They were nearly killing each other , as you saw when you pulled them apart . I ca n't tell you anything else .
Do n't talk about her anymore . Give me a bowl of wine . With this toast I bury all bad feelings between us , Cassius .
Show .
This pantomime was probably a summary of the play .
What 's sad is that love is supposed to be blind , but it can still make you do whatever it wants . So , where should we eat ? Oh my ! What fight happened here ? No , do n't tell me --I know all about it . This fight has a lot to do with hatred , but it has more to do with love . O brawling love ! O loving hate ! Love that comes from nothing ! Sad happiness ! Serious foolishness ! Beautiful things muddled together into an ugly mess ! Love is heavy and light , bright and dark , hot and cold , sick and healthy , asleep and awake -- it 's everything except what it is ! This is the love I feel , though no one loves me back . Are you laughing ?
Silver . There they go , Silver !
I admit the cape .
Oh , my lord , when we left Messina to fight the war , I looked at Hero with the eyes of a soldier . I liked what I saw , but my mind was so occupied with the rough , violent task ahead of me that there was no chance that like would turn intolove . But now that I 'm back , the room in my head that I used to fill with war plans has become crowded with soft and delicate feelings . They all lead me to the same thought -- how beautiful young Hero is and how I must have liked her even before I left to fight .
Please wait .
Any man can get drunk sometime . I 'll tell you what to do . Othello 's wife has a lot of influence now . He 's completely devoted to her . Go open your heart to her . Ask her to help you get back your position . She is so generous , kind , and ready to help that she thinks it 's wrong not to do everything she can , even more than she is asked to do . Ask her to help you heal the rift between her husband and you . I 'd bet my lucky stars your problem will be forgotten , and your relationship will be stronger than ever .
Good evening to you , good friend . No , no , put your hat back on , put it back on . No , please , keep your head covered . How old are you , friend ?
The woman who might have blocked you from all the murders you 've committed by strangling you in her cursed womb .
I ca n't find anyone who saw her leave . Her ladies-in-waiting saw her go to bed , and early this morning the bed was empty .
No talking . Just watch ! Be quiet .
Silly babbler , how you talk !
I do n't like seeing poor people overburdened or looking bad when they 're trying to do something good .
I mean , if you 'd agree to play against Laertes , sir .
That 's definitely the woman I saw , but it 's not the same man .
Since Cleopatra died , I have lived in such dishonor that the gods despise my disgrace . Though I have made conquests throughout the four corners of the world and sailed with fleets so large they looked like floating cities , I do n't have as much courage as a woman . I have less nobility than the lady who , by killing herself , says to Caesar , " Only Cleopatra can defeat Cleopatra . " You promised me , Eros , that should the ultimate moment arrive -- which it has -- when dishonor and disgust are inevitable , that upon my command , you would kill me . Do it . This is that time . You wo n't be striking me down , but defeating Caesar . Call up your courage .
My Lord of Warwick , a most corrupt treason --God be praised for it ! -- has been discovered , as plain as any you 'd hope to see on a summer 's day .
That is where it 's burning , father . My master is there . The one you love .
First of all , my house in the city , as you know , is filled with expensive furniture and household articles , china and gold , basins and pitchers for her to wash her dainty hands in . All my wall hangings are tapestries from Tyre . My ivory strongboxes are stuffed with gold , my wooden trunks filled with elegant rugs , expensive clothing , hangings and bed curtains , fine linens , Turkish cushions trimmed with pearls , Venetian draperies , pewter and brass , and everything else a household could possibly want . Then , at my farm I have a hundred milk cows , a hundred and twenty fat oxen in my stables , and all the equipment necessary to maintain them . I 'm getting on in years , and if I died tomorrow , all this will belong to Bianca -- if only while I live she 'll belong solely to me .
Delighted to hear you ask so nicely , but I wo n't stay in any case .
No , by our Lady , I do n't think he can .
We 've got to give them and take them , my lord .
I 'll go with him . I want to stay with my philosopher .
I 'm a gentleman , sir , and my name is Conrade .
Cousin , there 's been a falling out between him and Othello . An unfortunate rift , but you can fix it .
Madam , you 've spoken so highly of us fools , you 'd think your oldest son was going into that line of work . I hope God crams his skull full of brains , because here comes one of your relatives who 's pretty weak in the head .
Maybe until after Theseus 's wedding day . If you behave yourself and join us in our circle dance and moonlight celebrations , then you can come with us . If not , leave me alone , and I 'll stay away from your turf .
Yes , with the sign underneath him that says : " Here lives Benedick the married man " ?
He may command me as my king , but you still have power over me as a relative .
No. When I left you it was already morning . I 've been bold , Iago . I 've asked to talk to your wife . I 'm going to ask her to let me talk to Desdemona .
I did n't hear anything .
Stinking like a swamp .
Leave , you little man .
Come on , you keep getting paler . Please , let 's go home . Sir , please come with us .
Sisters , you whom our father loves so dearly , I leave you now with tears in my eyes . I know you for what you really are , but as your sister I 'm reluctant to criticize you . Take good care of our father and show him the love that you have professed . I leave him in your care -- but oh , if only I were still in his favor I could arrange for better care for him . Goodbye to you both .
If you want to see your deceiver , then look at me .
Yeah , so ?
I wo n't until I 'm ready . You will listen to me . My father instructed you in his will to give me a good education . But you 've raised me as a peasant , hiding from me what I needed to become a gentleman . My father 's spirit is growing in me , and I wo n't take this any longer . Either give me the freedom to act like someone of my own rank or give me my share of the inheritance , so that I can seek my fortune elsewhere .
Sir Paris , I 'll make a desperate argument for my child 's love . I think she 'll do whatever I say . No , I think she 'll do all that and more . I have no doubt about it . Wife , visit her in her room before you go to bed . Tell her about my son Paris 's love for her . And tell her , listen to me , on Wednesday --Wait --What day is today ?
So that he always has a roof over his head . He ca n't give his house away to his daughters , leaving himself without shelter .
I ca n't live by pretending anymore .
Nor is it up to you , my lord .
Go around the forest , moving faster than the wind , and make sure you find Helena of Athens . --She 's lovesick , and her face is pale from all the sighing she 's been doing , because sighing is bad for the blood . Bring her here with some trick or illusion , and I 'll put the charm on his eyes for when she comes .
The servants of the Duke and my lieutenant ? Hello , everyone ! What 's going on ?
You clearly have nothing good to say about me .
I 'll go see my mother soon . They 're trying as hard as they can to mess with me . --I will go soon .
Oh , I 've been killed ! If you are merciful , open the tomb and lay me next to Juliet .
That 's right , you stupid thing . Caliban , who now serves me . You know better than anyone how tortured you were when I found you . Your groans made wolves howl , and even made bears feel sorry for you . Nobody but the damned souls of hell deserves the spell that Sycorax put on you and could n't undo . It was my magic that saved you when I arrived on the island and heard you , making the pine tree open and let you out .
Wrong . There is a man who loves you better than your husband could .
Where 's Publius ?
Well , first there was the prince from Naples .
That 's my name . What do you want ?
And he 's friendly with Caesar .
Oh Helena , you goddess , you divine and perfect nymph ! What can I compare your eyes to ? Crystal is n't as clear as they are . Oh , your lips are as ripe as a pair of tempting cherries touching each other ! The pure white of the snow on a mountaintop seems black as a crow 's wing next to the whiteness of your hands . Oh , let me kiss your beautiful white hand . It 'll make me so happy !
The devil sings like a nightingale to haunt Poor Tom . The demon Hoppedance is in Tom 's belly , crying for some fish to eat . Stop whining , devil . I 've got no food to give you .
If they 're true , no punishment is harsh enough for the criminal . How are you , my lord ?
Delivered very respectfully . How is that fattened calf , your boss ?
And I would die a thousand deaths cheerfully , if it made your life easier .
Let 's slash their backs and grab ' em like we do rabbits , from behind . It 's fair game to mark a coward .
But if the cause is not just , the king himself will have a lot to answer for , when all those legs and arms and heads chopped off in battle shall join together on Judgment Day crying , " We died at such and such a place . " Some will be swearing , some crying for a surgeon , some for the wives that are destitute without them , some about the debts they owed , some for their children left unprovided for . I think few die well who die in battle . How can a person expect to resolve anything in a Christian manner when they 've passed their lives killing ? Now , if these men do n't die in a state of grace , it will be a heavy charge against the king who led them into battle , whom they , as his subjects , could not disobey .
No , Pompey , I have n't had anything to drink . You can be the most powerful man on earth if you dare use your power . Both land and sea are yours if you will take them .
What about Falconbridge , that young English baron ?
Poins , and the usual suspects .
Yes , the moon will shine that night .
Welcome , my lord . I 'm surprised my bland husband did n't meet me on the way here .
Will I live ? Go , stick with her , stick with her . Do n't let her out of your sight .
you . So think about who you let in . Do n't let in , " he said , " any troublemakers . " And none are getting in . You 'd be lucky if you heard what he said . No way , no troublemakers .
No ? Tell me , friend . Where are you from ?
Yes , I 'm sure he 's dead . I 've got no hope that he survived .
What 's this ? Are you sitting around in this humiliation to amuse yourself ?
Listen , when I behave this way toward him , he hates it .
Sir , if I may say so , there 's someone named Pistol here from the royal court . He 's got news .
I do n't dare , sir . My master does n't know I 'm still here . He threatened me with death if I stayed to look at what he was doing .
He ran to his house , stunned . Men , wives , and children stare , cry out , and run in the streets as though it were doomsday .
Yes , that 's all true -- but what do you mean by it , my lord ?
Royal Egypt , Empress !
I only wish I could load him up with all the praise he deserves ! Oh , will it never be day ? I will ride out a mile tomorrow and leave the road paved with the faces of dead Englishmen .
Oh , are you here , Iago ? You 've done a good job , that other men can attribute their murders to you !
Come here , Sir Andrew . You too , Fabian . We 've got some words of wisdom to mull over .
Well , my friends , you 've got to admit that if you scare the living daylights out of the ladies , they 'd have no choice but to execute us . But I 'll soften my voice -- you know , aggravate it , so to speak -- so that I 'll roar as gently as a baby dove . I 'll roar like a sweet , peaceful nightingale .
It 's too bad .
I 'll leave this handkerchief at Cassio 's house and let him find it . To a jealous man , a meaningless little thing like this looks like absolute proof . This handkerchief may be useful to me . The Moor 's mind has already become infected with my poisonous suggestions . Ideas can be like poisons . At first they hardly even taste bad , but once they get into your blood they start burning like hot lava .
Greetings to you too , your Highness . As soon as we raised the matter , the king sent out messengers to stop his nephew 's war preparations , which he originally thought were directed against Poland but learned on closer examination were directed against you . He was very upset that Fortinbras had taken advantage of his being old and sick to deceive him , and he ordered Fortinbras 's arrest . Fortinbras swore never to threaten Denmark again .
But you still wish the gods had made me poetical ?
Our hands are often covered in tar , from performing surgery on our sheep . Would you have us country folks kiss each other 's tarred hands ? Courtiers ' hands are perfumed .
I 've sent for Hotspur to explain himself . We 'll have to postpone the plans for our crusade to Jerusalem . Go tell my advisers that our next meeting will be Wednesday at Windsor . Then hurry back here . There 's more to be said and done , but I 'm too angry now to speak .
You 're this poor and wretched and still afraid to die ? Your cheeks are thin because of hunger . I can see in your eyes that you 're starving . Anyone can see that you 're a beggar . The world is not your friend , and neither is the law . The world does n't make laws to make you rich . So do n't be poor . Break the law , and take this money .
Let 's start . See , Beatrice has run over like a little bird , keeping close to the ground and trying to overhear us .
I have to stop you , Cimber . These kneelings and humble courtesies might excite ordinary men , flattering them into turning Roman law into children 's games . But do n't be so foolish as to think you can sway me from what 's right by using the tactics that persuade fools --I mean this flattery , low bows , and puppy - like fawning . Your brother has been banished by decree . If you kneel and beg and flatter for him , I 'll kick you out of my way like I would a dog . Know that I am not unjust , and I will not grant him a pardon without reason .
To get a piece of rope . And here I am , with that piece .
Sure ; and make sure it 's an excellent thing .
Whatever you want --I made it for you .
That Maria has outdone herself !
You 've got a sword , Gloucester . Blow the trumpets . If nobody else comes to challenge you and prove what an abominable traitor you have been , I 'll have to challenge you myself . I 'll prove soon enough that you 're just as wicked as I say you are .
Yes , that was it . You gave an excellent performance . Well , this is very fortunate , your arriving just at this moment . I happen to be planning a little entertainment and could really use your services . There is a particular lord who will watch you perform tonight . I 'm a little worried , though -- because his Honor has never seen a play before -- that his odd behavior may strike you as funny . You might not be able to control your laughter and you might offend him . I warn you , he 's sensitive . The slightest smile provokes him .
Oh , Lord -- what tedious sayings about love have you been wearing out your congregation with ? Should n't you have warned , " Be patient , good people " ?
You won it .
Which of these ladies is the Queen of Egypt ?
I 'm sorry , did you say something ? Please just listen . He is dead and gone , lady , He is dead and gone . At his head is a patch of green grass , And at his feet there is a tomb stone . Oh , ho !
She 's the fairies ' midwife . She 's no bigger than the stone on a city councilman 's ring . She rides around in a wagon drawn by tiny little atoms , and she rides over men 's noses as they lie sleeping . The spokes of her wagon are made of spiders ' legs . The cover of her wagon is made of grasshoppers ' wings . The harnesses are made of the smallest spiderwebs . The collars are made out of moonbeams . Her whip is a thread attached to a cricket 's bone . Her wagon driver is a tiny bug in a gray coat ; he 's not half the size of a little round worm that comes from the finger of a lazy young girl .
I mean knock his brains out , so he ca n't take Othello 's place .
This behavior really makes you look great .
If only I had a slingshot so I could hit him in the eye !
There 's an old saying : the dead will have their revenge . Gravestones have been known to move , and trees to speak , to bring guilty men to justice . The craftiest murderers have been exposed by the mystical signs made by crows and magpies . How late at night is it ?
By nine o'clock .
Everybody in town is down at the shore shouting " A sail ! "
No , good Sir Toby .
Cobble you , sir .
There 's no bravery in an unfair fight . I 've been look - ing for you two .
No , it 's just after twelve ; I heard the clock strike .
Your mistress 's marks ? What mistress do you have ?
Yes , what about him ?
All right . Our play is called A Very Tragic Comedy About the Horrible Deaths of Pyramus and Thisbe .
Being good-looking is n't the only way to my heart , you know . I have other criteria for choosing a husband . Not that it matters , because the box test takes away my free choice anyway . But if my father had n't restricted me like this -- forcing me to marry whoever wins his test -- then you 'd have had as good a chance to marry me as any of the suitors I 've met so far , prince .
Sir , my brother is very fond of you . He is in love with Hero . Please make him change his mind . She does n't have the proper rank to marry the Prince . You would be doing a good service .
Listen . The drums softly wake the sleepers . Let 's carry him to the barracks . He 's an important person . Our hour is up .
You 're being arrested ? Why ?
When only one or two men have all the good manners , and even they are dirty , things are bad .
Yes , and a nice one at that . Pray God your wife does n't send you a worse one .
Yes , indeed , Sir John . And I 'd like to take it home with me .
Certainly not ! But I 'm ashamed to kiss , sir .
Oh Hamlet , you 've broken my heart in two !
He 's fine and healthy , madam .
Yes , yes ! Lay me next to my mistress .
What did you start quarreling over ? Just tell us .
There 's another . Could that be a lawyer 's skull ? Where 's all his razzle-dazzle legal jargon now ? Why does he allow this idiot to knock him on the head with a dirty shovel , instead of suing him for assault and battery ? Maybe this guy was once a great landowner , with his deeds and contracts , his tax shelters and his annuities . Is it part of his deed of ownership to have his skull filled up with dirt ? Does he only get to keep as much land as a set of contracts would cover if you spread them out on the ground ? The deeds to his properties would barely fit in this coffin -- and the coffin 's all the property he gets to keep ?
He seems neutral , perhaps leaning a little more toward our side than that of our opponents -- since I 've made his Majesty an offer , following a meeting with our fellow bishops . The offer regards certain matters having to do with France that his Grace and I have been discussing . My offer would involve us giving him a greater sum than the clergy ever gave at one time to any of his predecessors .
Brass , you dog ! You damned lazy mountain goat , do you offer me brass ?
Now that you speak of paper , I remember a funny story of Hero 's .
To be honest , I do n't know why I 'm so sad . I 'm tired of it , and you say you 're tired of it too . But I have no idea how I got so depressed . And if I ca n't figure out what 's making me depressed , I must not understand myself very well .
So you took pleasure in bringing me this message ?
And they thought Margaret was Hero ?
Well , good luck ! I hope you 're successful . But prepare yourself for some unpleasantness .
If I ever turn my hatred toward your majesty , and do not love and cherish you and yours , may God punish me . May I find hatred where I most expect love . When I most need a friend , and when I 'm sure I have one , make him treacherous and deceitful to me . I beg God to do all this whenever I fail to show love to you or yours .
I hope not , Madam .
And I believe him to be brave .
My dearest relative , I 'm begging you , pull yourself together . As for your husband , he is noble , wise , and judicious , and he understands what the times require . It 's not safe for me to say much more than this , but times are bad when people get denounced as traitors and do n't even know why . In times like these , we believe frightening rumors but we do n't even know what we 're afraid of . It 's like being tossed around on the ocean in every direction , and finally getting nowhere . I 'll say good-bye now . It wo n't be long before I 'm back . When things are at their worst they have to stop , or else improve to the way things were before . My young cousin , I put my blessing upon you .
My lord , stand back and let the coffin pass .
Only yesterday the word of Caesar might have stood against the world . Now he lies there worth nothing , and no one is so humble as to show him respect . Oh , sirs , if I stirred your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage , I would offend Brutus and Cassius , who , you all know , are honorable men . I will not do them wrong . I would rather wrong the dead , and wrong myself and you , than wrong such honorable men . But here 's a paper with Caesar 's seal on it . I found it in his room -- it 's his will . If you could only hear this testament -- which , excuse me , I do n't intend to read aloud -- you would kiss dead Caesar 's wounds and dip your handkerchiefs in his sacred blood , and beg for a lock of hair to remember him by . And when you died , you would mention the handkerchief or the hair in your will , bequeathing it to your heirs like a rich legacy .
Let 's do that , because we 're hemmed in by many enemies . And even some of the people who smile at us are in fact plotting against us , I 'm afraid .
Then , on behalf of myself , I 'll tell you I 'll die .
I 'm backed into a corner with nowhere to run .
He 's coming , ma'am . I hear him .
My Lord Chief Justice , go speak to that arrogant man .
Is n't he a remarkable fellow , my lord ? He 's as smart as they come , but just a jester .
I ran from Shrewsbury , my noble lord . Death was there , frightening our side with his ugliest mask .
Hello ? Who 's the doorman around here ?
Gentlemen , welcome to Elsinore . Do n't be shy -- shake hands with me . If I 'm going to welcome you I have to go through all these polite customs , do n't I ? And if we do n't shake hands , when I act all nice to the players it will seem like I 'm happier to see them than you . You are very welcome here . But still , my uncle - father and aunt - mother have got the wrong idea .
You should tell Antonio what you hear -- but do n't do it suddenly , because it might upset him .
My husband !
We must not only arm ourselves to invade France , but must also apportion troops to defend against invasion by the Scots , who will see this as a perfect opportunity to attack .
Nephew , farewell . Do n't do any more than I tell you to do in the letters I 'll write you . When the time comes , which will be soon , I 'll sneak off to Glendower and Mortimer . I 'll plan it so that you , Douglas and all our armies will arrive together . Then we can face our future with strength instead of the uncertainty we feel now .
Oh , you 're a naughty one , encouraging double - dealing .
Who , me ?
I believe I have some choice in the matter , sir .
Dromio , bring this money to the Centaur Inn , where we 're lodging , and wait there until I come . It 'll be lunchtime within an hour . Until then , I 'll walk around town , peruse the markets , and gaze upon the buildings , and then I 'll return and sleep at the inn . I 'm stiff and weary from all this travel . Get going now .
Oh , tell it yourself if you 're so smart . It 's too bad . If you had n't made me angry , you would have heard all about how her horse fell with her under it , how swampy the place was , too , and how she was covered in mud , and how he left her like that , with the horse on top of her , and how he beat me because her horse stumbled , and how she waded through the dirt to pull him off me , and how he swore , how she prayed -- this woman who never prayed before -- and how I yelled , and how the horses ran away , and how her bridle broke , and how I lost my riding crop , and many other things worth telling , which now will all be lost to memory , and you 'll go to your grave ignorant .
How does it feel to be Benedick the Married Man ?
How are you doing , madam ?
I wish you 'd won the fleece he lost .
What ? Why this is out and out robbery ! To appropriate another man 's name .
I mean well , sir .
I can read my own fortune in my misery .
What 's her name ?
Let 's follow the music as far as we can without leaving our station and see if it stops .
There 's no crab-apple here , so do n't look sour .
And you too , sir . I 'm at your service .
Damn him to hell then , just like Dives in the Bible - -the rich glutton who rejected the beggar Lazarus ! And may Dommelton burn even hotter ! He 's a son-of-a-bitch traitor ! A two-faced liar , who smiles and says " Yes sir , that 'll be fine " to my face , and then demands a guarantee of payment ! These bastard shopkeepers , with their fashionable short haircuts , and fancy shoes , and their fat key chains on their belts -- you make an agreement to put something on credit , and then they throw a " guarantee of payment " at you . I would rather eat rat poison than guarantee my payment . I expected him to send me twenty-two yards of satin , and instead he sends me a " guarantee of payment . " Well , let him guarantee himself a good night 's sleep . After all , his wife 's in somebody else 's bed , so why not ? She 's practically shining a spotlight on her adultery , but he 's so clueless he ca n't even tell . Where 's Bardolph ?
No , not at all --
Dead .
Help ! Is n't there a guard around ? No one passing by ? Murder ! Murder !
Yes , cut your throat , by God , you peasant , unless you give me gold coins , good gold coins . If not , you 'll be mangled by this sword of mine .
I do .
I do n't remember .
Good morning , cousin .
Or however the Destinies say you should .
and they had even more reason . Let 's put him now in London , since France 's period of mourning requires the king of England to stay home . Imagine a visit of the Holy Roman Emperor , working on France 's behalf . He wants to bring about a peace between the two countries . Skip over all the particularities between then and Harry 's return to France . There we must place him , and I myself have covered the interim period by reminding you that it has taken place . So , keeping this omission in mind , immediately return to France , your eyes following the path of your thoughts .
Oh no , oh no !
Is Signior Lucentio at home , sir ?
Hurry up , hurry up .
I told you not to hang around my house . I 've already told you quite plainly that my daughter will never marry you . Now you come here drunk to make trouble and startle me out of a sound sleep ?
I certainly will , sir . And as for what I promised to you , I 'm as good as my word . You can ride him easily , and he responds well when you pull the reins .
She 's not going to borrow money from them .
Do n't think I 'm flattering you . What could I hope to get from you , who 've got nothing but your charm to support you in life ? Why would anyone flatter a poor person ? No , keep flattery for kissing the hands of those who can pay well . You understand ? Ever since I 've been a free agent in my choice of friends , I 've chosen you because you take everything life hands you with calm acceptance , grateful for both good and bad . Blessed are those who mix emotion with reason in just the right proportion , making them strong enough to resist the whims of Lady Luck . Show me the person who 's master of his emotions , and I 'll put him close to my heart -- in my heart of hearts -- as I do you . But I 'm talking too much . The point is , there 's a play being performed for the king tonight . One of the scenes comes very close to depicting the circumstances of my father 's death , as I described them to you . Watch my uncle carefully when that scene begins . If his guilty secret does not reveal itself , then that ghost was just a devil , and my hunch was n't , in fact , worth anything .
I was not born to surrender , you arrogant Scotsman . You 're about to see a king take revenge for Stafford 's death .
You do n't know ? Someone who was always near you . If you call for Enobarbus , he wo n't hear you . Or if he can hear you from Caesar 's camp , he 'll reply , " I 'm no longer on your side . "
Well , I 'll commit the sin of double - dealing , and deal you a second coin . Here it is .
Well , what do you guess ?
It does , it does , it does .
I 'm going . Write to me very soon and I 'll let you know what she thinks .
With a needle and thread .
In that case I 'll take their offer . Pay me three times the amount of the loan and let the Christian go .
What 's this ? What 's this ?
Your brother has to die too . Do you agree , Lepidus ?
I 'll take this penny as a token that you 'll pay for this .
I do understand , by touch .
This disease is beyond my medical skills . But I have known people who sleepwalked and were n't guilty of anything .
You want me to stop my tale before I 'm done .
I 'll obey you until I can make bail . But Angelo , you 'll pay for this , even if it costs all the precious metals in your jewelry shop .
Since you put it that way , I 'll sing . You 're like a suitor who courts a woman insincerely , swearing that he loves her even though he really does n't find her worthy .
You know that he does .
I 'll knock your teeth out , sir . To hell with your sword .
Orsino , this is the same Antonio who took the Phoenix and her cargo from Crete and captured our ship the Tiger during the battle where your young nephew Titus lost his leg . We arrested him here for fighting in the streets . It 's as if he did n't care we were on the lookout for him here .
It 's as strange as this other thing which I do n't understand . I could just as easily say that there is nothing in the world that I love as much as you . But do n't believe me -- though I 'm not lying . I confess nothing , and I deny nothing . I feel awful for my cousin .
Murderer ! Villain !
You 're going to destroy yourself with all this drinking . Lady Olivia said so yesterday . She also mentioned some stupid knight you brought in one night as a possible husband for her .
Right now I 'd give a thousand furlongs of sea for one little acre of dry ground : barren weed patch , anything at all . What 's destined to happen will happen , but I 'd give anything to be dry when I die .
How 's that ?
They have me tied to a stake . I ca n't run away . I have to stand and fight , like a bear.Where 's the man who was n't born from a woman ? He 's the only one I 'm afraid of , nobody else .
We 'll listen to him , we 'll follow him , we 'll die with him .
I do n't know what I 'm doing . I 'm afraid I 'm not using my head , and I 'm falling for his good looks . Fate , do your work . We human beings do n't control our own destinies . What is fated to happen must happen . So let it happen !
A drum , a drum ! Macbeth has come .
What , like stuff from a house ?
Charles duke of Orleans , nephew to the king ; John duke of Bourbon , and Lord Bouciqualt : of other lords and barons , knights and squires , a full fifteen hundred , besides common men .
Look , here comes just the man we were looking for .
Good .
You take your instrument and play awhile . He 'll be finished with his lecture before you 've even tuned it .
My mask is like the roof of the poor Philemon 's humble cottage ; underneath the mask , I am as magnificent as the glorious god Jove .
Make sure my guard is on duty and leave me alone . Ratcliffe , around midnight come to my tent and help me put on my armor . Now leave me alone , as I said .
Well , we 'll hear more about it from your daughter . Let it sit for a while . I am very fond of Benedick , and I just wish he would take a look at himself and realize how unfairly he 's treating this good woman .
Let the gods judge me ! Do I mistreat even my enemies ? No. So how could I possibly wrong a brother ?
For when you cut your shin .
Come , Antony and young Octavius ! Get your revenge on Cassius , because Cassius has grown tired of the world . He 's hated by someone he loves , defied by his brother , rebuked like a servant , all his faults observed , catalogued in a notebook , read , and committed to memory so they can be thrown in his face . Oh , I could weep my soul right out of myself ! There 's my dagger , and here 's my bare chest . Inside it is a heart more valuable than Pluto 's silver mine and richer than gold . If you 're a Roman , take my heart out . I , who denied you gold , will give you my heart . Strike as you did at Caesar , for I know even when you hated him the most , you still loved him better than you ever loved me .
So that 's what we 're fighting for , and that 's the kind of support we have . Now please , my noble friends , tell me frankly if you think we have a chance . First you , Marshal Mowbray . What do you say ?
If he says anything against me , I 'll humble him , even if he were stronger than he is -- and twenty punks like him . If I ca n't do it myself , I 'll find someone who can . That dirty rat ! I 'm not one of his sluts . I 'm not one of his punk friends who carries a knife . And you just stand there letting every jerk make fun of me for kicks .
Well , I 'll just forget the difficulties of my situation , in order to focus on the happiness of yours .
If I can trust my dreams , then some joyful news is coming soon . Love rules my heart , and all day long a strange feeling has been making me cheerful . I had a dream that my lady came and found me dead . It 's a strange dream that lets a dead man think ! She came and brought me back to life by kissing my lips . I rose from the dead and was an emperor . Oh my ! How sweet it would be to actually have the woman I love , when merely thinking about love makes me so happy .
Oh , I 've been murdered unfairly !
Ridiculous ass ! You 're not even educated enough to know why music was created . Was n't it to refresh the mind of man after his studies and daily toil ? Therefore allow me to read philosophy with her , and then , when I am finished , indulge in your harmony .
No , God help me , they did n't say a word . Like silent statues or stones that breathed , they just gazed at each other and turned as pale as the dead . When I saw this , I scolded them and asked the mayor what this stubborn silence meant . He said that the people were n't used to being spoken to except by the Recorder . So I urged the Recorder to repeat my tale -- you know , " The duke of Buckingham said this , Buckingham meant that , " but nothing on his own authority . When he was done , a few followers of my own at the far end of the hall hurled their caps in the air . Some ten voices cried , " God save King Richard ! " I jumped on this slender opportunity and said , " Thank you , noble citizens and friends . This widespread applause and enthusiastic shouts make clear you stand behind Richard . " And then I broke off and quickly came away .
It was me , no one else . Everything is gloomy , dark , and dreadful . Your eldest daughters destroyed themselves and died in despair .
Oh , come on now , Kate . Do n't look so sour .
Antonio !
It looks that way . But tell me why you did n't take immediate action against his criminal acts , when your own safety and everything else would seem to call for it .
Sir , I think I have the right to speak , and speak I certainly will . I am not a child or an infant . Better men than you have heard me speak my mind , and if you ca n't take it , then you 'd better plug your ears . I 'll express my anger or die concealing it . And rather than have that happen , I 'll give myself permission to speak as freely as I like , whatever I may have to say .
Oh , where 's Romeo ? Have you seen him today ? I 'm glad he was n't here for this fight .
Just a second , sir !
Are the others waiting ? Tell me .
No , taking you away from your new marriage would be like showing a child a new coat and then not letting him wear it . I 'll ask only Benedick to come with me , for from the top of his head to the soles of his feet he 's a joker . He 's evaded love once or twice , and since then Cupid does n't dare to shoot at him . Benedick 's heart is like a bell , with his tongue as the clapper : everything his heart thinks , his tongue speaks .
My gracious lord , you won it , wore it , kept it , then gave it to me . My possession of it must therefore be honest
Extraordinary Egyptian !
Oh , Silius , Silius , I 've done enough . A subordinate may exceed his authority . You must understand , Silius , that it 's better to leave something undone than achieve too much fame in your superior 's absence . Caesar and Antony have always achieved more by delegating authority to their officers than by leading their troops in person . Sossius , an officer that held the same position in Syria as I do here , achieved great distinction very quickly but lost Antony 's support as a result . A man who achieves more in war than his captain does becomes his captain 's rival . Ambition is a good quality in a soldier , but it proves detrimental rather than beneficial when used to surpass his superiors . I could do more to help Antony , but to do so would insult him . And by insulting him , I would lose credit for the good I have done him already .
For me , too . I 'll go with you .
Let 's see what they are . Read them .
What are they doing on the road ? They made more money and got more attention in the city .
At your service , madam .
Never . I 've only been that far down when I 've drunk myself under the table . Sometimes I think I 'm no smarter than average . I eat a lot of red meat , and maybe that makes me stupid .
That 's right sir , we were drinking until 3 A.M. , and drink , sir , makes a man do three things .
And that 's true -- he is being strange . And yet he lies as well , for he 's no stranger .
You take out your sword too . When I raise my hand , you do the same , and bring it down on Gonzalo 's head .
No , Sir John . It 's my cousin Silence . Like me , he 's also a justice of the peace .
You 're lying , you shaggy-haired villain !
Cruel , cruel news !
You have absolutely abused our sex in this love talk of yours . We should rip off your man 's clothing and show the world the woman who has represented her own kind so badly .
Go ahead and follow him . But what does all this mean , where will it all end ?
So did I.
Was the Duke of Milan kicked out of Milan so his children could become kings of Naples ? Oh , this is cause for an extraordinary joy that should be engraved in gold on pillars to last forever . On one and the same trip Claribel found a husband in Tunis , and Ferdinand , her brother , found a wife where he was shipwrecked ; Prospero found his dukedom on a poor island ; and all of us found ourselves when we lost control of ourselves .
The beautiful Helen of Troy had a thousand suitors . Let Bianca have one more -- anyway , she 's got one . Lucentio shall join the ranks , even if Paris himself comes to woo her .
What 's going on ? I hate pretending I 'm a wandering beggar when all I want to do now is comfort my poor father . --Bless you , master .
What prisoners of rank have been taken , uncle ?
My man Grumio !
God bless you , Mr. Priest .
My lord , I cannot believe your son is dead .
I should have known it . It 's been this way ever since the first government was organized . People will transfer their support to a strong figure until he becomes their actual leader . Then they will value their former leader , even though the loss of their support has made him powerless . The common crowd changes like the tide , to and fro , serving whoever is on the rise . Their power is worn away by their fickleness .
I 'm going to get my bond . Do n't try to say anything against my taking my bond . I 've sworn an oath that I will have my bond . You called me a dog before you had any reason to . But since I 'm a dog , beware my fangs . The duke will give me justice . --I do wonder , jailer , how you can be so foolish as to let this prisoner out of his cell .
From a certain knight who swore on his honor that the pancakes he was eating were good , and that the mustard on top of them -- he swore on his honor -- was bad . Now , I 'll swear to the opposite -- that the pancakes were rotten , and the mustard was fine -- but even so , the knight was n't lying .
Then let 's go in and hear what he has to say -- though I think I can guess before the Frenchman has uttered a word .
To find you . Who 's that ? Metellus Cimber ?
Is that a tradition ?
That too . My dear Caius , I 'll explain the task at hand to you as we walk toward the man we must do it to .
Falstaff , if it please you , sir .
As long as they did n't do anything , it would only be a minor sin . But if I gave my wife a handkerchief --
Is the king awake , worthy thane ?
Goodbye , boy . You know what I intend . I 'll leave you now to chatter and gossip like an old woman . The wit you flaunt is like a blunt sword -- it ca n't hurt anyone , thank God . --My lord , I thank you for your many kindnesses . I 'm leaving your court now .
My lord , a messenger is waiting outside with letters from Bellario . He 's just come from Padua .
He 's very rude . He insists he 'll speak with you whether you want him to or not .
He was in bed with --
" All this " ? Yes , and more . Go ahead -- rage till your proud heart breaks . Show your slaves how mad you are , and make your servants tremble . But me -- am I going to cower at you and your irritable moods ? You 'll have to swallow your own poison till it makes you burst before I 'm going to respond ; from now on , I 'll make you the butt of my jokes whenever you get sharp with me .
Agreed .
I want my sword . Old Montague is here , and he 's waving his sword around just to make me mad .
Farewell , gentle gentlemen .
You can improvise the whole thing . It 's just roaring .
The ship 's sailing into harbor now ; it 's from Verona . Michael Cassio , lieutenant of the Moor Othello , has arrived on shore . The Moor himself is still at sea . He 's been commissioned to come here to Cyprus .
A hundred then .
Oh , a plague has been prevented , thank God ! That 's what you 'll say once you 've seen part two .
Now , by my mother 's son , and that 's me , it will be moon or star or whatever I want before I 'll travel to your father 's house . Go return our horses . -- Constantly contradicted and contradicted , and nothing but contradicted !
Which noblemen have joined him ?
I do , Mark Antony .
Soon we 'll find out what 's really ours and what is n't . It 's easy for us to get our hopes up just sitting around thinking about it , but the only way this is really going to be settled is by violence . So let 's move our armies forward .
No , my lord , not me .
It 's not my fault he acts like that , Helena .
Now you have it all : you 're the king , the thane of Cawdor , and the thane of Glamis , just like the weird women promised you . And I suspect you cheated to win these titles . But it was also prophesied that the crown would not go to your descendants , and that my sons and grandsons would be kings instead . If the witches tell the truth -- which they did about you -- maybe what they said about me will come true too . But shhh ! I 'll shut up now .
Ah , Sirrah , he said . We will : Do nothing but eat and celebrate , And praise God for this happy year , When flesh is cheap but women are costly , And lusty men roam here and there , So merrily , And always so merrily .
Oh , good old man , you 're a great example of that old work ethic , where people worked because it was their duty , not just for the money . Your approach is n't the fashion these days , when no one works hard except for a promotion , and , as soon as they 've got it , they stop working . But in working for me , old man , you are pruning a rotten tree : despite all your pains and efforts , it wo n't yield a single blossom . Come along , though . We 'll go together , and before we 've spent all the savings of your youth , we 'll find a way to make a living .
Who has wronged him ?
Antony , it 's time to stop your wild hedonism . When you were defeated at the battle of Modena -- where you killed the consuls , Hirtius and Pansa -- and then driven away , you had to face hunger and thirst . And even though you were brought up as a gentleman , you patiently tolerated more hardships than savages could withstand . You drank horses ' urine and water from scum - covered puddles that even animals would refuse . Though you were used to the finest foods , you did n't turn up your nose at the bitterest berries on the thorniest bushes . You even ate bark from trees , as deer do in winter . Going over the Alps , you ate strange meat that some men would rather die than consume . And you went through all this -- the comparison between then and now shames you -- in such a soldier - like way that you did n't seem to suffer at all .
They swore that you were nearly dead with love for me .
Where is it , Jack ? Where is it ?
You will never fall victim to Benedick 's charms , my niece .
Yes , indeed , it was , and he pushed it away three times , each time more gently than the last ; and at each refusal my countrymen shouted .
Into my grave .
I ask a favor of you in return for the service I 've done , my king .
In Alexandria he condemned Rome , and that 's not all . This is what happened : he and Cleopatra sat on chairs of gold on a silver-covered stage in the marketplace . Caesarion -- whom they call my father 's son --Julius Caesar was Octavius Caesar 's adopted father .Caesarion -- whom they call my father 's son -- and all their illegitimate children sat at their feet . Antony confirmed her possession of Egypt and made her absolute Queen of lower Syria , Cyprus , and Lydia .
She wants to have a word with you in her bedroom before you go to bed .
Greetings , Caesar , my lord ! Greetings , dearest Caesar !
So young , my lord , and honest .
Oh Lord , who 's that crying ?
Yes , and you could buy a case to put it in , too . But tell me , are you speaking seriously ? Or are you just teasing ? If I 'm going to sing along with you , I need to know what key you 're singing in .
I am , unless I somehow stole this role .
Neither can my accomplishments at sea .
Only a few more words , but they 're the most important . Let me go this way , and you go that way . When one of us finds the king , he 'll call out to the other one .
Your gray beard should be a sign that you 're a man of gravity .
What 's wrong with my niece ? Why is she reacting so strangely to her brother 's death ? Grief is bad for people 's health .
My boy , it 's true . Anyone who says you 're a man must not notice how young you are . Your lips are as smooth and red as the goddess Diana 's . Your soft voice is like a young girl 's , high and clear , and the rest of you is pretty feminine too . I know you 're the right person for this job . Four or five of you go along with him , or you can all go if you like . I 'm most comfortable when I 'm alone . If you succeed at this assignment , I 'll reward you well . My whole fortune will be yours .
To make his political performance absolutely perfect , he simply had to become the Duke of Milan himself . My library was a large enough dukedom for me . So , now Antonio judges me incapable of carrying out my duties . He 's so power-hungry that he allies himself with the King of Naples , agreeing to pay him a regular annual sum , swear subservience to him , and put the dukedom of Milan -- never subservient to anyone before ! -- under the humiliating control of Naples .
All right . Mark Antony will say I 'm not well , and to please you I 'll stay at home .
My lord , I know one unhappy gentleman who has more pride than money . Money talks , and would very likely get him to do anything .
Well then , it 's about time you were put to use .
What does he look like , Biondello ?
Sure , but do n't do it at full volume until there 's no danger in it . Not long ago you challenged and opposed your brother , and it is only very recently that he has forgiven you . You need to act carefully if you 're going to stay in his good graces . You have to wait for the appropriate time to let loose .
Get up early tomorrow -- at the sound of the lark -- noble Norfolk .
Madam wife , they say I 've been dreaming or asleep for more than fifteen years .
Enough , gentlemen . I will settle this matter . Deeds will determine the winner here . Whichever of you can promise Bianca the greatest dower shall have my daughter 's love . Tell me , Signior Gremio , what can you offer her ?
No , I wo n't take a husband until they make men out of something other than dirt . What woman would n't be distressed , being lorded over by a handful of dust ? Can you imagine being hitched to a lump of clay ? No , uncle , I wo n't be married . And anyhow , if Adam is the father of all mankind , then his sons are my brothers , and really I believe that incest is a sin .
Look , sir -- here it comes !
Who heard me do that ?
By God , I 'll go after him again and beat him up .
Madam , what should I do ? Run to the Capitol and nothing else ? And then return to you and nothing else ?
By the same principle that made me condemn Cato for committing suicide , I plan to be patient and submit to what the gods decide . I do n't know why , but I find it cowardly and vile to kill oneself early to prevent possible suffering later on .
Sir , I tell you that we are not .
When I was still living with him I heard him swear to Tubal and Cush , his countrymen , that he 'd rather have Antonio 's flesh than twenty times the sum Antonio owed . And I know that unless the law intervenes , it 'll be bad news for poor Antonio .
Then let it do something that will do me good , whatever you want to call it .
Farewell till then . I will go lose myself , wandering up and down throughout the city .
My lord , I know the man .
That 's very likely . He has epilepsy , a disease where you fall down .
I 'm sorry to find you like this . I 've been looking all over for you .
Me neither , my lord .
And here 's another poem , which I stole from my cousin 's pocket -- in her handwriting and all about her adoration for Benedick .
Read it .
Hic ibat , as I told you before , Simois , I am Lucentio , hic est , son of Vincentio of Pisa , Sigeia tellus , disguised as a teacher so as to win your love , Hic steterat , and the fellow who comes to court you calling himself " Lucentio , " Priami , is my servant Tranio , regia , pretending to be me , celsa senis , so we can get the better of the foolish old man .
Before you got so angry , I never would have thought that .
You think I 'm a sponge , my lord ?
I wo n't .
Leave you alone ! Why ?
How will I recognize you in the future ?
That 's right . We have a chance at a rich inheritance ; we can take a risk now , based on the promise of success to come . That gives us comfort , something to fall back on .
Kick him out of the gate . He can sniff his way to Dover .
Well , I 've seen them married . Good luck to them ! Uh-oh . What 's this ? It 's my master 's father , Vincentio ! Now we 're in trouble . Everything 's ruined .
Your joke is a very bitter apple . Your humor is a spicy sauce .
You 're making such a fuss . Come on , what did Romeo say ?
And why is that , please ?
I 'm sorry that I must force you to believe this , when I wish to God that I had n't seen it myself . But I saw him , in his bloody state , with my own eyes . He was barely able to fight back , exhausted and out of breath . Harry Monmouth 's swift fury beat the unflinching Percy down to the ground , and once he was there , Percy never rose again . To be brief , Percy 's spirit inspired the entire army , down to the dullest peasant . When the news got out that he had been killed , it took the fire and courage away from even the bravest soldiers . Percy 's metal steeled the whole army ; when they learned that he had been blunted , they bent and warped like dull , heavy lead . And just as a heavy object gains momentum once it 's pushed into motion , our army , made heavy by
No , sir , their hats are pulled down over their ears and their faces are half buried under their cloaks , so there 's no way to tell who they are .
Cupid -- that blind bastard son of Venus , conceived from a thought and anger , born from insanity , that blind , naughty boy who makes everyone else go blind just because he ca n't see himself -- let Cupid judge how deep my love runs . I 'm telling you , Aliena , I ca n't stand being apart from Orlando . I 'm going to find some shade and sigh until he returns .
I 'll cut Hamlet 's throat in church .
Are you an actor ?
What did my father lose that I now need to restore ? Richard , the King at the time , loved my father , but given what was happening he had no choice but to banish him . And then , at Coventry , my father and Harry Bolingbroke met in a formal challenge . They were both mounted on their horses and ready to charge . Their horses were neighing , anxiously waiting for their riders ' spurs to drive them forward . Their steel-tipped lances were ready for the attack . The visors of their helmets were down . Their eyes were on fire behind the steel slits . The trumpet sounded , and then -- when there was nothing that could have stopped my father from killing Bolingbroke - -the King prevented the fight by throwing down his royal scepter . That scepter was a symbol of his life ; when he threw it down , he threw down his life and the lives of every man that has since died at war under the leadership of Bolingbroke .
Give me your hand , Leonato . We will go in together .
Come on , close the curtain , Nerissa .
You 're making fun of me .
As sure as I 'm standing here , I saw him .
Hello , my lord .
You have to hang it first . Then you can draw it .
What , are you a coward , Sir John Fatstuff ?
To our house .
I 've listened to you too much already . Your words and actions do n't match up .
Yes , Caesar , but it 's not gone yet .
Who 's the one following over there , the one who would n't dance ?
Yes . Please , sing .
A little , madam .
We 've seen the clock strike midnight , Master Shallow .
My hands are as red as yours , but I would be ashamed if my heart were as pale and weak .
Wait , I 'll go with you .
No gentlemen , do n't get ready to go now . We have a little dessert coming up . Is that really true ? Well , then , I thank you both . I thank you , honest gentlemen . Good night . Bring more torches over here ! Come on , let 's all get to bed . Ah , my man , I swear , it 's getting late . I 'm going to get some rest .
Where did the King spend last night ?
I know my rights . I 'll call a policeman .
She says all the right things , but the dumbest brothel - keeper would tell the same story . Desdemona 's a tricky whore with a closet full of awful secrets , but still she 'll kneel and pray like an honest woman . I 've seen her do it .
Sir , I think I saw him last night .
With words that -- if they were spoken honestly -- might have moved me . First , he praised my beauty , then my eloquence .
Howl , howl , howl , howl ! Oh , you men are made of stone ! If I were you with eyes and a tongue to speak with , I 'd crack heaven wide open with my laments ! She 's gone forever . I know how to tell when someone is alive or dead . She 's as dead as the cold ground . Let me borrow a mirror . If her breath steams up the glass , then she 's alive .
That 's right , Hermia wo n't hurt Helena even if you try to help her .
This is a majestic and harmonious vision . Are these spirits we see before us ?
First , a chicken -- two shillings and two pence . Second , sauce -- four pence . Third , wine , two gallons -- five shillings and eight pence . Fourth , anchovies and dessert wine -- two shillings and six pence . Fifth , bread -- a halfpenny .
It 's women crying , my good lord .
Tsk , you 're wrong . Leave me and do what I told you to do . Do n't you have a letter for me from the friar ?
Who put out the light ?
But to make me claim that he 's any more harmful than I am -- well , I ca n't claim that . Yes he 's old , and it 's a shame : his white hair proves it . But that he 's a-- forgive me -- pimp ? That I absolutely deny . If drinking wine and sugar is a fault , then God forgive us all . If being old and merry is a sin , then I know a lot of old men who are going to hell . If being fat means you should be hated , than we should all love Pharoah 's lean cows . No , your highness . Get rid of Peto , get rid of Bardolph , get rid of Poins . But as for sweet Jack Falstaff , kind Jack Falstaff , honest Jack Falstaff , brave Jack Falstaff , and therefore even more brave , given that he is old Jack Falstaff --do not get rid of him . Do not get rid of him . If you get rid of him , you 'll be getting rid of the whole world .
Father is on the lookout . Get out of here quickly ! It has leaked out that you 're hiding here . If you leave now , you can take advantage of the darkness and sneak away . You have n't said anything against the Duke of Cornwall , have you ? He 's rushing on his way here right now , and Regan 's with him . Have you said anything against Cornwall or Albany ? Think about it .
Always give him his way . Never contradict him .
Yes , but look how the Trent runs its course and winds a similar distance into my share . It cuts out the same amount of land from my side as it does from yours .
And I 'm telling you it was burnt and dried out . I 'm not allowed to eat overcooked meat . It gives me indigestion and that makes me irritable . Very , very irritable . Better for us to go hungry , since we 're both hotheaded , than for us to eat meat that 's been cooked too long . But do n't worry , tomorrow it will get straightened out . Tonight we 'll go without food .
God be good to you !
Just as tall as my heart .
All joking aside , here 's an invoice spelling out exactly how many carats the necklace weighs as well as the quality of the gold and the workmanship . The total due is about three ducats more than I owe this gentleman . Please , pay him immediately . He 's about to leave on a trip and he 's waiting for the money .
He feels the need to grace all his other tramps with his presence while I sit at home starving for a smile from him . Has homely old age taken the alluring beauty from my poor cheeks ? That 's because he has squandered my beauty . Am I boring ? Have I lost my wit ? If my conversation is no longer free and clever , that 's because he 's dulled it --I 'm like a sharp tool he 's blunted with a hard piece of marble . Is he charmed by their pretty clothes ? Well , that 's not my fault -- he 's the one in charge of my spending . What faults can you find in me that were n't first caused by him ? One smile from him would repair my decayed beauty . But like an unruly deer , he 's always trespassing past the park borders and straying away from home to feed in new pastures . I am nothing but a poor , used fool .
I 'd second your wish if it automatically meant that Lucentio could have Baptista 's youngest daughter . This is for your master 's sake , not mine . So watch your step when there are other people around . When we 're by ourselves you can call me " Tranio . " Everywhere else , address me as your master Lucentio .
You will also confess , I 'm sure , that you love me .
Good-bye for a while .
Things have certainly changed !
It 's true , rude Lysander , I do love him . That 's why I 'm giving him my daughter . She 's mine , and I 'm giving her to Demetrius .
Birnam Wood .
Give me your hand . Bring me to my host , Macbeth . I love him dearly , and I shall continue to favor him . Whenever you 're ready , hostess .
He 's too overwhelmed with shame . He remembers how unkind he was to her , how he disowned her and sent her abroad , how he gave her rightful inheritance to her two dog - hearted sisters . All those memories pain his mind so deeply that guilt and shame keep him away from Cordelia .
They 'll be arrested in a little while .
I swam ashore like a duck . I can swim like a duck , I swear .
Oh , Lysander , I swear I 'll be there tomorrow . I swear by Cupid 's strongest bow and his best gold-tipped arrow , by the Goddess of Love 's innocent doves , by everything that ties lovers together , by the bonfire where Queen Dido burned herself to death when her lover Aeneas jilted her , and by all the promises that men have broken . I give you my word , I will meet you at that spot tomorrow .
Listen !
I am not some fiend of hell : you ca n't get rid of me with spells . I 'm in a mood to beat you up pretty good . If you get nasty with me , Pistol , I 'll stab you with my sword , in fair play . If you 'd like to step aside with me , I 'll give you a little prick in the guts , all in fair play , if I can , and that 's the way it is .
Sir , may I speak with you ? I 'll see if I can get my husband 's ring , which I made him swear to keep forever .
Shut up , you doddering old wizard ! I 'm not possessed !
No , not at all , sir . Time travels at different speeds for different people . I can tell you who time strolls for , who it trots for , who it gallops for , and who it stops cold for .
I 'll be triple the soldier I was in strength , bravery , and stamina . I 'll fight brutally . In the days when I had better luck , prisoners of war could buy their freedoms from me with simple trinkets . But now I 'll grit my teeth and kill anyone who tries to stop me . Come , let 's have one more extravagant night . Invite all my sad captains . Fill our wine bowls again . Let 's drink through midnight .
If you think about it correctly , Caesar has suffered a great wrong .
Give me a goblet . --Hamlet , this pearl 's yours . Here 's to your health .
You 're a fool . If Echo were as fast , he would be worth a dozen like Belman . But give them all a good dinner and look after them well . I 'll go hunting again tomorrow , I think .
Do that , and I 'll set you free in two days .
Is n't his brother , Thomas of Clarence , with him ?
Oh , do n't injure your cousin like that ! With the quick , intelligent wit she 's rumored to have , she ca n't really be such a bad judge of character that she 'd refuse a man as exceptional as Signior Benedick .
I 'm going to sell all my land .
I will . But I also have to feel it like a man . I ca n't help remembering the things that were most precious to me . Did heaven watch the slaughter and not send down any help ? Sinful Macduff , they were killed because of you ! As wicked as I am , they were slaughtered because of me , not because of anything they did . May God give their souls rest .
At him , at him ! Look how pale he is and how he glares at me . Preaching even at stones , he could get them to act . Do n't look at me like that , unless you want me to cry instead of kill .
What man are you digging it for ?
It warms my heart to encounter such a country bumpkin . Truly , we witty men ca n't hold our tongues . We have to mess with the likes of him , we just ca n't help it .
It 's just that my wit is very gentlemanly , Margaret , and refuses to hurt a woman . Now please , tell Beatrice to come out . I admit defeat ; I give you the bucklers .
Oh , has it come to this ?
Did you send for him , sir ?
Here , Fluellen , stick this in your cap . When Alencon and I went down together , I plucked this glove from his helmet . If any man challenges it , he is a friend to Alencon and an enemy to me . If you encounter such a man , arrest him and prove your loyalty to me .
Oh , be quiet . There 's a feud between the two dukes . And there 's something even worse than that . I got a letter tonight . It 's dangerous to talk about it . I 've locked it up in my room . The humiliation that the king is suffering now will be revenged thoroughly . Armed forces have already landed . We have to take the king 's side . I 'll look for him and secretly help him . You go and talk to the duke so he wo n't notice I 'm helping the king . If he asks to see me , tell him I 'm sick and went to bed . Even if I have to die -- as they threaten --I have to help the king . Strange things are about to happen , Edmund . Please be careful .
Oh ho , is that what you 're getting at ? You want money before you 'll read ? No eyes in your head til there 's money in your wallet ? Your eyes are in a bad way , your wallet 's empty , but you understand the ways of the world .
I 'm telling you , it 's not lost .
All right , we will , we will .
Go find the coroner and tell him to perform an inquest on my uncle , because he 's in the third degree of drunkenness -- he 's drowned . Go take care of him .
Help ! It 's a monster ! We 're being haunted . Run , everyone , run !
Are you going to watch the race ?
Go , you old housewife , go . Go to bed , dear . You 'll be sick tomorrow because you 've stayed up all night .
I think it was at sea .
Oh , come on , your Grace - -I 'm barely out of breath .
But why would that gentleman who rode past Travers describe such examples of loss ?
Goodbye , gentlemen . We 'll see you tomorrow .
Come on , you first decided she was beautiful when no one else was around . There was no one to compare her to except herself . But let your eyes compare her to another beautiful woman who I 'll show you at this feast , and you wo n't think she 's the best anymore .
Go and wiggle your ears !
fast and pray to stave off temptations . Someone with a young sweating hand like this one is bound to act up sooner or later . It 's a nice hand , an open one .
battle of wits by an ordinary jester with no more brains than a rock . Look at him , he 's at a loss for words already . Unless he 's got somebody laughing at him , he ca n't think of anything to say . I swear , anyone smart who laughs at these courts jesters is nothing but a jester 's apprentice .
I wonder if the lion 's going to talk .
Here , Peter Quince .
It 's Captain Macmorris , right ?
To kill the boys with the luggage ! It 's expressly against the rules of combat . It 's as complete a work of villainy as any that could be thought up . Tell me , do n't you think so ?
If you send them word that you wo n't come , they might change their minds . Besides , someone 's likely to joke , " Adjourn the senate until some other time , when Caesar 's wife has had better dreams . " If you hide yourself , wo n't they whisper , " Caesar is afraid ? " Pardon me , Caesar . My high hopes for your advancement force me to tell you this . My love gets the better of my manners .
Now I know who you are . How are you , soldier ?
No , Sir John ; you do n't know me , Sir John . I know you , Sir John . You owe me money , Sir John , and now you 're making a fuss so that you can cheat me out of it . I have bought you a dozen shirts to wear .
Did you doubt that she was your daughter , since you had to ask her mother ?
Do n't worry about him . --You there , Biondello , now act your part convincingly . Behave as though this were the real Vincentio .
What does that have to do with my Lysander ? Where is he ? Oh , good Demetrius , will you find him for me ?
The duke of York sends your Majesty his respects .
By this sword , I 'll kill whichever one of you makes the first thrust . By this sword , I will .
I deny that . And if you 'll deny the Sheriff , then please do ; otherwise , let him in . If I do n't look as good on the hangman 's cart as any other man , then a curse on my upbringing . I 'm as willing to be hanged as any man .
I rely on your virtue to protect me . And because I can see your shining face , it does n't feel like nighttime to me . This forest does n't seem deserted when you 're here , because you are all the world to me . So how can anyone say I 'm alone , when the whole world is here to look at me ?
Raise the curtains of your eyelids and go take a peek at what you can see out there .
Are you trying to tell me that I was n't sent to get you ?
That criminal , loathsome corrupter of youth : Falstaff , that old , white-bearded devil .
I 'll get you for that . Now get on with your story .
Find him and tell him to come here . Tell him I 've spoken to my husband on his behalf , and I think everything will be all right .
Take me to him . I love to argue with him when he 's having one of these fits , because then he always has a lot to say .
Do n't you hear me speaking ?
What a wonderful girl ! God help me , I love you ! And when I stop loving you , the universe will fall back into the chaos that was there when time began .
Oh , sweet England ! King Stephen was a good king , and his pants were very cheap , But he thought his tailor overcharged him , so he called him a peasant . And that was a man of noble rank , much higher than you are . So be happy with your worn-out cloak , Since pride is ruining the nation . More wine !
No , you shall not . Since you chimed in , let 's see if we can trade a caustic joke or two .
Just a second !
There 's only one body here . The son ran away .
I could n't see you , Lysander , but I heard your voice , and that 's how I found you . Why did you leave me alone so unkindly ?
Come down here . You have to be my torchbearer for the masquerade .
It would be wonderfully wise of you , my dear Reynaldo , to ask around about his behavior a little before you visit him .
He 'll never leave her . Age wo n't wither her , and her charms are so varied that she never grows boring . With other women , the more familiar you grow with them the less appealing they become . Cleopatra , on the other hand , makes you desire her the more you see her . Even her worst faults are charming , and holy priests bless her even when she acts the slut .
And be a happy mother by doing so .
Exactly the kind of relative as the country cows are to the town bull . Ned , should we spy on them as they eat supper ?
Do you remember a Venetian scholar and soldier who accompanied the marquess of Montferrat here once when your father was still alive ?
Yes , ma'am . We changed his clothes while he was fast asleep .
No , my lord , I 'm comfortable like this , thank you . Sir , there 's someone named Laertes who 's recently come to the court . He 's an absolute gentleman , totally outstanding in so many respects , very easy in society , and displaying all his excellent qualities . If I were to expose my true feelings about himOsric 's language is vague and blustery , and Hamlet 's is too when he mimics Osric . Together they sometimes make almost no sense . If I were to expose my true feelings about him , I 'd have to say he 's like a business card for the upper classes -- he 's that wonderful . You 'll find that he 's the sum total of what a perfect gentleman should be .
I wo n't say no to you , but let it be known that I 'm only doing this after a lot of persuasion and to save your life --I hear you were quickly wasting away without me .
People who are either too serious or too silly are awful . They make themselves targets for ridicule even faster than drunks do .
She ca n't stand to hear about getting a husband .
I 'd rather live in a windmill and eat nothing but cheese and garlic than in a luxurious home eating delicacies , if it meant I had to listen to him talk .
I 'm sorry , sir , but nobody can make a choice like this in such circumstances .
Yes , my Lord . The prisoners you asked for , which my son Harry Percy captured at Holmedon , were not kept from you in anger . He 's already told you that . Whoever told you my son meant to defy you was either mistaken or trying to make trouble . He 's done nothing wrong .
Ha , ha , ha !
You , Roderigo ! Come on , I 'll fight you .
You may leave .
Sir , it 's a troupe of actors who want to perform for your Lordship .
What is it , Jack ?
I 'd rather see his blood splattered on your face than flowing through his veins . Did you finish him off ?
I must admit your offer is the best . And provided that your father will be your guarantor , she shall be yours . Otherwise - -forgive me , but if you should die before him , what becomes of her dowry ?
Does n't everyone want a wife like that ?
What color , madam ? I do n't understand -- how should I answer that ?
Yes , and that makes me sad . Seeing Lord Northumberland with such a blessed son makes me commit the sin of envy . When honor speaks , it speaks about Hotspur . In a grove of trees , Hotspur stands straightest . He is the favorite darling of Fortune . When I see how he is praised , I can only see my own son , Harry , and his reputation for wildness and dishonor . If only it could be proven that a fairy had come to their cradles at night and switched them ! Then the Percy family would have my Harry , and we Plantagenets would have Hotspur ! But stop thinking about Harry now . Westmoreland , what do you make of young Percy 's arrogance ? He says he 'll keep all the prisoners he captured for himself , and will only send me Mordrake , Earl of Fife .
You devil ! I remember these pains all too well . You killed my husband , Henry , in the Tower and my poor son , Edward , at Tewksbury .
Pardon me but I do not know what is " like me . "
You , merchant , do you have anything to say ?
And so -- ?
Brutus , my lord .
Come back to my house with me . I could n't bear to obey all of your daughters ' harsh orders . They commanded me to lock my doors and leave you out in this merciless storm , but I 've come out here to find you and take you where there 's warmth and food .
That 's it ? Nothing to add ?
Oh , excellent ! I love long life better than figs .
But he should be told .
My servant ! The world 's gone downhill since fake humility started passing for compliments . You 're not my servant , young man . You 're Count Orsino 's servant .
Oh , King Stephano ! Worthy Stephano , look at the fabulous wardrobe waiting for you here !
Madam , I 'm doing nothing but sticking to the point . It 's true he 's crazy , and it 's a shame it 's true , and it 's truly a shame he 's crazy -- but now I sound foolish , so I 'll get right to the point .
I 'm out of patience .
He 's as brave as a fox .
Are we all here ?
If you 've got any music that ca n't be heard , then play that . But as I said , the general is n't really in the mood to hear music now .
Then go ahead and prove it .
If I can get close to him , I wo n't worry about his thrusting .
Tell me , you unknown power --
I dreamed about an emperor called Antony . Oh , I wish I could sleep again , so I could have another dream like that !
Oh , I can buy twenty husbands at any market .
Please lie down and rest a while , my lord .
I 'm dying an innocent woman .
Cast spells with them , and " Brutus " will call up a ghost as well as " Caesar . " Now , in the name of all the gods , I ask you what food does Caesar eat that has made him grow so great ? Our era should be ashamed ! Rome has lost the ability to raise noble men ! When was there ever an age , since the beginning of time , that did n't feature more than one famous man ? Until now , no one could say that only one man mattered in all of vast Rome . Now , though , in all of Rome , there 's room for only one man . You and I have heard our fathers talk of another Brutus -- your ancestor -- who would 've let the devil himself reign in his Roman Republic before he let a king rule .
You are your father 's daughter . That 's enough .
Were these things we 're talking about really here ? Or are we both on drugs ?
Twelve years ago , Miranda , twelve years ago your father was the Duke of Milan , a powerful prince .
Oh , my God !
That 's true , sir . She was previously Caius Marcellus ' wife .
What , here in the middle of the street ?
I could go on weeping like a woman and bragging about how I will avenge them ! But gentle heavens , do n't keep me waiting . Bring me face to face with Macbeth , that devil of Scotland . Put him within the reach of my sword , and if he escapes , may heaven forgive him as well !
For a priest who does n't know his Latin or a rich man who is free from the gout . The one sleeps easily because he is n't up late studying and the other lives merrily because he 's free from pain . The first lacks the burden of intense , exhausting study , and the second is spared the burden of heavy , exhausting poverty . Time ambles for both men .
My cousin 's a fool , and you are too . I 'll wear this one and none other .
All right .
To sail to Italy and Caesar . Another thing , Domitius : Antony wants to see you now . I should have waited to tell you my news .
Because I did n't want to watch while you gouged out his poor old eyes with your cruel fingernails , or while your vicious sister sank her fangs into his sacred flesh . You left him out in the storm in the black night , bareheaded , a storm so terrible that if it had happened at sea , the waters would have risen up and extinguished the fire burning in the stars . And the poor old man just wept , mixing his tears with the rain . If wolves had been howling outside your gate at the heart of that storm , you would 've told your doorman to let them in , despite all the cruelties you inflict on the world . But soon I 'll see the gods punish you for your lack of respect to your father .
What is it , Agrippa ?
You , good lady --
What is his name ?
Here , take some money . The torments of heaven have brought you down to this humble state . My misery makes you more fortunate in comparison . It should always work like that . The spoiled man who has everything , who ca n't see the misery around him because he does n't feel it himself , should be made to feel agony so he can learn to share his wealth . That way wealth would be redistributed until everyone has enough to survive . Are you familiar with Dover ?
Get him out of here . Sister , come with me .
Do so , and tell my sweet to be ready to scold me .
And even then we 're still indebted to you . We owe you love and service forever .
How large is his land army ?
Is he still alive , good uncle ? Three times in an hour I saw him down , and three times up again and fighting . He was covered with blood from his helmet to his spurs .
To see an elderly , unlucky merchant from Syracuse publicly beheaded for breaking the law and coming here to Ephesus .
Tell him my fury will abate , and I 'll take the crowns .
What 's wrong with you ?
If you had an I in the back of your head , you 'd see trouble behind you .
Three thousand ducats . That 's a nice even sum . Three months from twelve months of the year . Let me see . The interest rate will be --
You are , but you do n't know it yet . The source from which your royal blood comes has been stopped .
Hello , sir . God bless you .
Well , to wear out their shoes and get myself more work . Seriously , though , we took the day off to see Caesar , sir , and celebrate his triumph .
What ?
No , the truth will come out --Me , shut my mouth ? Let heaven and men and devils tell me to shut me up . I 'll say what I have to say .
A messenger has arrived from Caesar .
Why ? What have you done ? Where is Lucentio ?
Listen to me .
I beg you , let me show where you can find crabs to eat . I 'll use my long fingernails to dig edible roots for you , find you a bird 's nest , and teach you how to catch a nimble monkey . I 'll take you to clusters of hazelnuts , and sometimes I 'll catch birds for you on the rocks . Will you come with me ?
I 'm like the one sick sheep in the flock , the one who deserves to die . The weakest fruit drops to the ground first , so let me drop . Bassanio , the best thing you can do is to keep living and write an epitaph for my gravestone .
I 'd bet my life she 'd never lie to me . Iago , I 'm leaving my dear Desdemona with you . Have your wife attend to her , and bring them along as soon as you can . Come on , Desdemona , I 've only got an hour of love to spend with you , to tell you what you need to do . We 're on a tight schedule .
She 's a remarkable lady , if the rumors are to be believed .
Do n't worry , I wo n't .
Time 's not the one in debt . Your logic is so foolish .
A husband ? You mean a devil !
It 's true , Hero says so . Beatrice asks , " Does it make any sense to write and tell him I love him when I have always treated him with scorn ? "
I will , Caesar .
That 's what I said when I first conjured the tempest . Tell me , spirit , how 's the king and his entourage ?
Gosh , the knight 's very good at acting like a fool .
My lord , my lord --
Antony .
Some people in the street are crying " Romeo . " Some are crying " Juliet , " and some are crying " Paris . " They 're all running in an open riot toward our tomb .
Yes , very well . So do n't think that I 'm drunk .
This is for your trouble .
Shall I accompany your Grace ?
Said what , sir ? When did I say all that ?
A puppet show in real life . Now I 'll believe that unicorns exist , and that there 's a tree in Arabia where the phoenix lives .
My lord , old Sir John and a half-dozen others are at the door . Should I let them in ?
That only proves how inexperienced you are . You know that the style of a man 's jacket or hat or coat means nothing .
Tell me what you did with the king 's ship , the sailors , and the other ships .
And would shout to sailors , " Go to hell ! " She did n't like ship smells like tar , But liked it okay when a tailor took her to bed . So go to sea , boys , and let her go to hell ! That 's a rotten song too . But here 's something to comfort me .
My man -- monster is so drunk he ca n't talk . As for me , no liquid can harm me , neither booze nor the whole sea itself . Before I could get to shore , I swam thirty-five leagues in it and still survived . --Monster , you 'll be my lieutenant , or my flag - bearer .
I have half a mind to hit you before you speak again . But if Antony is alive , healthy , friendly with Caesar , and not Caesar 's prisoner , I 'll shower you with gold and pearls .
And so do I. I think we all do . But , since our agreement is a recent development , it should n't be put to the test , which could happen if the coronation turned into a huge ceremony . So , I agree with noble Buckingham -- only a few should go to meet the prince .
Well said , I swear , sir . Well said . " Well enough accommodated ! " That 's good . That 's very good . Good turns
Wait . I 'll come with you . If you leave me like this , you 're doing me wrong .
It was Kent , sir , the exiled Kent , who , after the king treated him like an enemy of the state , put on a disguise and followed his king , carrying out tasks unworthy of even a slave .
Be calm , dear lady .
Look , it 's going away .
Well done ! I admire your efforts , and all of you will share the rewards . Now come sing around the cauldron like a ring of elves and fairies , enchanting everything you put in .
You 're a pretty ragged wart .
That 's because you are near me , and you 're as dazzling as the sun .
Did you ask him to ? God forbid !
Stand farther away . -- Come on , continue your story .
Well , something 's standing up . I 'm not sure I can wait that long . Still , I 'd hate to see my former dreams return . So I will wait , however flesh and blood may feel about it .
For my part , I 'm sorry this battle turned into a drinking match . Today Pompey laughs away his fortune .
So Litio 's out of the picture .
No , I know that you 're Signior Lucentio .
I 'll flatter anyone who flatters me -- though what I 've accomplished on land cannot be denied .
I 'll remember . When Caesar says " do this , " it is done .
Damn you ! What did you mean by giving me this handkerchief ? I was an idiot to take it ! You want me to copy the embroidery pattern ? That was a likely story , that you found it in your room and did n't know who it belonged to . This is a love token from some other slut , and you want me to copy its pattern for you ? Give it back to her , I wo n't do anything with it .
Now I am no more than a woman , ruled by the same lowly passion as the maid who milks and does the humblest chores . I might now hurl my scepter at the destructive gods and tell them that this earthly world was as good as their heavenly one , until they stole away its jewel , Antony . Now all is for nothing . Patience is foolish . Impatience suits a mad dog . So why should it be a sin to rush toward death , to seek it out in its hiding place before it dares to come to find me ? How are you , my ladies ? Tell me ! Cheer up ! How are you , Charmian ? My gallant girls ! Ah , ladies , look : the light of our lives has gone out . Good noble ladies , be brave . We 'll bury him , and then we 'll commit acts as brave and fine as any Romans , and make death proud to take us . Come on , you can go . The container of that great soul is now cold . Ah , ladies , ladies ! Let 's go . We have no friends but determination and the quickest death .
That 's the beginning of the day we see , but I do n't think we 'll see the end of it . --Who goes there ?
Lady , I swear by the sacred moon above , the moon that paints the tops of fruit trees with silver --
Where 've you been , Hal ?
Be careful , Signior Baptista , lest you be made the dupe in this business . I could swear this is the real Vincentio .
And you 've come at a good time , so you can convey my greetings to the senators and tell them I wo n't come today . It would n't be true to say that I ca n't come , and even less true to say that I do n't dare come . I simply wo n't come today . Tell them so , Decius .
How old are you ?
Yes , my lord .
What have you done with the corpse , my lord ?
Surrender or you will die .
Dissolute lowlife , you shall die .
Good Ursula , go wake my cousin and ask her to get up .
Did I do it right ?
It does n't matter . Oh , how silly we are ! If I die before you do make sure I 'm wrapped in those sheets in my coffin .
Please be silent , my friends , unless someone can play some restful , whispering music for my exhausted spirit .
He 's a good soldier too , lady .
He wants to be king in a place with no kingship .
There is n't much time . Either we go after Pompey or he 'll come after us .
Fill the cup , and pass it here , I 'll drink it to the bottom , even if it 's a mile down .
Why are you waiting ?
I 'll say goodbye once more .
God Almighty , my liege , I wish that you and I could fight this royal battle all alone .
Where is that impatient man who ca n't even wait for his friend , sickness , to put an end to me ?
My lord , you know very well that you did , and wrote letters to go along with them , letters so sweetly written that they made your gifts even more valuable . Their perfume is gone now , so take them back . Nice gifts lose
Are we all ready ? What problem should I discuss with you first ?
mercy from the gods who summon these terrifying winds and thunderbolts . Other people have sinned against me more than I have sinned against them .
If I said to Agrippa , " I agree . Make it happen , " does Agrippa have the power to make it so ?
If I may say so , your Majesty , your famous grandfather and your great-uncle Edward , the Black Prince of Wales -- or so I 've read in the history books -- fought a very brave battle here in France .
No , I have n't . What 's going on ?
Just now . Right here . Less than half an hour ago .
Who are you talking about ?
That was a fine fanfare , boys . Like a young man who wants to amount to something , this morning begins early . So , so . Here , give me that . This is how it goes on . Well done . Farewell , lady .
Both fencers are bleeding -- how do you feel , my lord ?
Sleep well there on the ground . I 'll cure you , gentle lover , by putting this medicine on your eyes . When you wake you will be truly delighted to see the woman you once loved . And when you wake up , you 'll be a walking illustration of the well-known country proverb . " Jack will have Jill and everything will be all right . "
So you 're saying you 're not a whore ?
Are you satisfied , Jew ? What do you say ?
Well , she must be old . She 's got no choice but to be old . Of course she 's old . She gave birth to Robin Nightwork , the son of old man Nightwork , before I even got to Clement 's Inn .
He followed the old man . Here he comes back .
Do n't try to find out more .
Let it be a wicked child who mocks the mother who cares for it . Make my daughter feel -- make her feel how an ungrateful child hurts worse than a snakebite . --Now let 's leave . Go !
You really do n't recognize me , father ?
Here I am , Theseus .
If this letter 's right , you 've got a lot to deal with .
I do n't know about that . Now , do n't forget , you promised me something .
It 's a good thing you 're not a piece of fish . You 're dried and shriveled like salted fish .
Well , let 's hope your good fortune continues !
My Lord Bassanio , and my dear lady , I wish you all the joy I can wish for . And when you get married , I hope I can be married at the same time .
Why , too much freedom leads to woe . There 's nothing under heaven that does n't have its limits . The beasts on the earth , the fish in the sea , and the birds in the sky are all subject to the males of their species and under their control . Men , who are nearest to God , are the masters of all these creatures . And men -- the lords of the wide
I will . But now we do n't have to !
Oh , please , tell us , sir .
Now I 'm scared again . Otherwise I would have been perfect , as solid as a piece of marble , as firm as a rock , as free as the air itself . But now I 'm all tangled up with doubts and fears . But Banquo 's been taken care of ?
Are you the slave who , with your slanderous words , killed my innocent child ?
Kiss her soft mouth , and we 'll be off .
For no woman , either .
Either you will die as you should , before you 've had a chance to win this battle , or I will die from grief and age and never look upon your face again . So , take with you my heaviest curse , which I hope wears you out in battle even more than your heavy suit of armor will . I pray that the little souls of Edward 's children will whisper to your enemies and promise them success and victory . You are violent , and your end will be violent . Your life was shameful , and let your death be , too .
You 're still here ? Shame on you -- get on board ! The wind is filling your ship 's sail , and they 're waiting for you . Here , I give you my blessing again . And just try to remember a few rules of life . Do n't say what you 're thinking , and do n't be too quick to act on what you think . Be friendly to people but do n't overdo it . Once you 've tested out your friends and found them trustworthy , hold onto them . But do n't waste your time shaking hands with every new guy you meet . Do n't be quick to pick a fight , but once you 're in one , hold your own . Listen to many people , but talk to few . Hear everyone 's opinion , but reserve your judgment . Spend all you can afford on clothes , but make sure they 're quality , not flashy , since clothes make the man -- which is doubly true in France . Do n't borrow money and do n't lend it , since when you lend to a friend , you often lose the friendship as well as the money , and borrowing turns a person into a spendthrift . And , above all , be true to yourself . Then you wo n't be false to anybody else . Good - bye , son . I hope my blessing will help you absorb what I 've said .
Who am I then ?
And yesterday the night owl sat hooting and shrieking in the marketplace at noon . When all these extraordinary things happen at once , we should n't say , " These happenings can be explained rationally . They 're natural enough . " I think these things are omens of things to come in our country .
I 'll keep standing here , even if you keep forgetting . I 'll forget that I have any home besides this spot right here .
Dead .
Well , go on your way , then . You wo n't leave this grove until I 've paid you back for this insult . My dear Puck , come here . You remember the time when I was sitting on a cliff , and I heard a mermaid sitting on a dolphin 's back sing such a sweet and harmonious song that it calmed the stormy sea and made stars shoot out of the sky so they could hear her better ?
But , back to Orlando , did he leave his brother there , to be food for the hungry mother - lioness ?
That 's a step in the direction of love .
Excuse me ?
Sir , we 'll follow as soon as Mark Antony kisses Octavia good - bye .
You 're smiling ? I sent for you about a sad occasion .
Feeling the loss like this , I ca n't help but weep for him forever .
Let me be captured . Let me be put to death . I am content , if that 's the way you want it . I 'll say the light over there is n't morning . I 'll say it 's the reflection of the moon . I 'll say that sound is n't the lark ringing in the sky . I want to stay more than I want to go . Come , death , and welcome ! Juliet wants it this way . How are you , my love ? Let 's talk . It 's not daylight .
Hello , Roderigo . Please , follow the lieutenant . Hurry ! Go !
Me too .
What should I swear by ?
Where are you , Demetrius , you arrogant bastard ? Say something .
In the meantime I 'll get down to my real business . --Hand me that map over there . --I hereby announce that I 've divided my kingdom into three parts , which I 'm handing over to the younger generation so I can enjoy a little rest and peace of mind in my old age . --Cornwall and Albany , my loving sons - in - law , I now want to announce publicly what each of my daughters will inherit , to avoid hostilities after I die . The two
That 's true , my lord .
Get going , Bardolph ! Saddle up my horse . Master Robert Shallow , pick whatever job you want in the whole country : it 's yours . Pistol , I 'll pile honors on you .
Farewell , old man .
Sweet Hero , she 's been wronged , she 's been slandered , she 's been ruined .
Well if it is n't Sir John ! Are you making trouble here ? Is this appropriate for a man of your position , your age , and your responsibilities ? You should be well on your way to York by now . Get off him , man . Why are you holding him ?
Do n't ask me anything . You know what you know . From this moment on , I 'll never say another word .
Hey , ostler ! Come on already , damn you !
Here he is , here he is . How are you , sir ?
You 're still experiencing some of the little quirks of this island , which makes so many things seem uncertain . Welcome , my friends . But you two lords , if I felt like it , I could turn you in as the traitors you are . But as for now , I wo n't say a word .
I have to attend to this noble man right here . But thank you , Sir John .
Please , my loving wife and sweet daughter - in - law , support me in my difficult tasks . Do n't let the grimness of these days be reflected in your faces ; do n't add to Percy 's troubles .
I do n't know who else would send me a letter from abroad except Hamlet .
And you promise to marry her , when I bring her here ?
Hooray ! Come on , noble captain .
Will you be my husband , then ?
It certainly is . Look , here comes good Sir John . Let me shake your hand ; let me shake your hand , sir . I swear , you look good , like you have n't aged a day . Welcome , good Sir John .
I have to get rid of her .
Lorenzo , that 's for sure , and I 'm also sure you 're my love -- who else do I love so much ? And now who but you knows whether I 'm yours ?
Were these things necessary , then ? Then we 'll treat them like necessities , even though the very word " necessities " cries out against us . They say the Archbishop and Northumberland have fifty thousand men in their army .
What , not even to pray ?
When I come back , I 'll expose these judges for the frauds that they are . I can see through this Judge Shallow . Lord , Lord ; we old men sure know how to tell lies ! This dried-up old judge has done nothing but go on and on to me about how wild he was when he was as a youth , and how many stunts he pulled in the seedy parts of town . Every third word he speaks is a lie , and he 'll tell lies quicker than a Turk will scramble to pay the sultan . I remember him at Clement 's Inn : he looked like a man someone carved after dinner out of a scrap of cheese . When he was naked he looked like a mandrake root , with a fanciful head someone had carved in with a knife . He was so skinny that he was invisible to any man with imperfect vision ; he truly was the embodiment of starvation . But he was as horny as a monkey : the whores called him " mandrake , " because mandrake stimulates the sex drive . He was always a little bit behind the times . He would hear the wagon drivers sing their songs , and then he 'd go to his worn-out whores and sing them what he 'd heard , pretending he had written them himself . And now this vile stick has become a landowner , and he talks about John of Gaunt like he was his own brother . I swear , he only saw Gaunt
I was told that by one who knows him better than you .
The Prince and Claudio did , but the devil , my master , knew that it was Margaret . They believed the charade partially because of my master 's testimony -- which first caused them to doubt Hero -- and partially because of how dark and deceiving the night was , but mostly because of my villainous actions , which confirmed Don John 's slander . Claudio went away enraged , swearing that he 'd meet Hero at the temple as planned and there , before the entire congregation , shame her with what he 'd discovered and send her home without a husband .
But did you tell him she cheated on him ?
The news is true , my lord . Caesar has been seen . He has captured Toryne .
Are you insane , talking like this ?
Why is the Jew waiting ? Take your penalty .
Shall we go see this fortification , men ?
Cassio can have my job . And tonight , sir , I invite you have dinner with me . Welcome to Cyprus . Horny animals !
They 're out to get me , and I wo n't stand for it ! Which of you has been complaining to the king that I do n't like them ? By God , whoever is worrying the king with these lies does n't love him very much . Just because I do n't know how to flatter and act nice , to smile in men 's faces and , as soon as their backs are turned , spread rumors about them , to bow and scrape like a nobleman trained in the French court , people have to think I 'm their enemy . Ca n't a plain man live and do no harm to anyone without being taken advantage of by a bunch of slick , sneaky lowlifes ?
I repeat , he 's in love .
Good night then , Casca . This bad weather is n't good to walk around in .
You mean , " Shut up , you jerk " ? That 's the song where the singers call each other jerks , right ? So I 'll be forced to call you a jerk , Sir Andrew .
Because animals are blessed with hair . With men , he 's been stingy with hair , but he makes up for it by giving them intelligence .
Come on , woo me , woo me . I 'm in a good mood now and likely to give you what you want . What would you say to me now if I really were your precious little Rosalind ?
I 'm too young to remember anything like it .
Good sir , as a friend , I advise you to leave this place . Although you deserve praise , applause , and love , right now the duke misconstrues everything you 've done . The duke is temperamental . I 'm sure you can imagine what I mean without my having to spell it out .
He does n't know what he 's saying . It 's useless to try to talk to him .
May the devil turn you black , you white-faced fool ! Why do you look like a frightened goose ?
I 've heard of him but I 've never met him . A merchant of unheard-of wealth .
What 's happening , my Lord Chief Justice ? Where are you going ?
Excuse me , do you know which room Lieutenant Cassio lies in ?
Hail , noble master !
God have mercy , Grumio ! He wo n't have a chance .
Who sent you this time ?
Yes , I did . But that was n't romantic , it was just polite manners .
What foolish teacher taught you these manners , Sir John ?
You stole it from her ?
Why are you doing this ?
For a thief on his way to the gallows . Such a man walks as slowly as possible and , even so , gets there too soon .
Everyone stand aside . --Cousin Buckingham .
The gods forbid !
Take care of the queen !
Now all the young men of England are inspired and have stored their party clothes in the closet . Armorers are doing great business , and all men think about is honor . People are selling off their land to buy warhorses so they can follow the exemplary king into battle as if they had winged feet , like Mercury . There 's a sense of anticipation in the air . In the minds of Harry and his followers , visions of the kingdoms , spoils , and titles to be won eclipse thoughts of actual fighting . The French , meanwhile , have been forewarned of all this preparation by their spies and tremble in fear . They seek to derail the English with cowardly tricks . Oh , England ! You are physically small but inwardly great , like a mighty heart enclosed in a small body . There is nothing you could n't accomplish if all your subjects were loyal and loving ! But , see , the king of France has detected your weak spot : a nest of faithless traitors , whose treachery he has purchased with gold . Three corrupt men --Richard , earl of Cambridge ; Henry , Lord Scroop of Masham ; and Sir Thomas Grey , knight , of Northumberland -- have agreed to conspire with the French in exchange for money . The gracious king will die by their hands in Southampton before he sets sail for France - -if Hell and treason have their way . Stick with us , ladies and gentlemen , and we 'll make a play , conquering space and time . Imagine that the traitors have been paid and made their choice . The king has left London , and the scene now
You 've said it well . So have a seat and talk to her . She 's yours . --Come , Ariel ! My trusty servant , Ariel !
He 's not a " master , " sir , he 's just a poor man 's son . His father , if I do say so myself , is an honest but very poor man , and , thank God , likely to live a long time .
And so your subjects serve you all the more energetically , hopeful of success and reward .
I swear on my scepter and my soul , he has more of a right to the throne than you , you shadowy copy of a king . For without a right to the throne -- nor anything even resembling a right -- he has filled the kingdom 's battlefields with armies . He seeks to lead an army against the King , into the jaws of the lion . And even though he is no older than you are , he leads old statesmen and venerable bishops into bloody battles and violent wars . What lasting honor he won , by beating the renowned Douglas ! That man 's great exploits , violent invasions , and glorious military reputation had won him praise throughout the Christian world as the most outstanding soldier . And yet Hotspur , this Mars in baby clothes , this infant warrior , has defeated Douglas three times , captured him once , then freed him and made him his ally . Now they have become a huge threat to my throne . And what do you have to say about this ? Percy , Northumberland , the Archbishop of York , Douglas , and Mortimer have banded together , and now they are after me . But why am I telling you this ? Why should I tell you about my foes , Harry , when you are my most beloved and most dangerous enemy ? With your sycophantic fear , your vulgar inclinations , and your short temper , I would n't be surprised if you left me to fight under Percy , following his heels like a dog and bowing to him when he frowns . Just to prove what a degenerate you are .
Look out , here she comes .
Wicked woman , these white hairs you 're pulling off my chin will come to life and accuse you of wrong - doing . You are my guests . This is no way to treat a host who has welcomed you into his house . What do you think you 're doing ?
Where are you , Death ? Come here . Come , and you can have a queen . One queen is worth more than a whole number of babies and beggars , your cheapest conquests .
Any girl who laughs because I 'm going with the king is too foolish to remain a virgin very long .
Six or seven thousand , at most .
She cheated on me , and she was a whore .
If you hear a child crying in the night , you should call the nurse and tell her to quiet the child .
That 's how someone who 's been murdered should look , and that 's how I look . You 've pierced me through the heart with your cruelty , and yet you , the murderer , look as bright and clear as a star in the sky .
Indeed , young man , her mother is the lady of the house . She is a good , wise , and virtuous lady . I nursed her daughter , whom you were just talking to . Let me tell you , the man who marries her will become very wealthy .
He 's fallen in love with your sheer ugliness . And I think she 's falling in love with my anger . If I 'm right , as soon as she answers you with frowns , I 'll rebuke her with bitter words . Why are you looking at me like that ?
I 'll start eating , even if this is my last supper . It 's all right , since the best part of my life was over anyway . Brother , Duke , please have some food .
Then you were right on target . The woman I love is beautiful .
I 'm not Cinna the conspirator .
I would be satisfied if we made each other true promises of love .
Why do you want to do that , my lord ?
I hope with all my heart she will !
What kept you from telling him this ?
If that man , who 's made up of conflicts , becomes musical , then there must be something wrong with the universe . Go find him . Tell him I want to speak with him .
Thank you , sir .
Why are we putting up with all this ? The town 's got a pair of stocks .
When devoutly religious men are praying , it 's hard to draw them out of it , because they get lost in the wonder of their contemplation .
Do n't you think it 's my duty now to kill him with this weapon ? This man who killed my king , made my mother a whore , took the throne that I hoped for , and set a trap to kill me . Is n't it completely moral to kill him now with this sword -- and an easy conscience ? And would n't I be damned if I let this monster live to do more harm ?
What is it , sir ? Of course we will .
It was me , sir .
Well , good luck to them tonight in bed ! Come with us , lieutenant . I 've got a jug of wine , and these two Cyprus gentlemen want to drink a toast to the black Othello .
go by , from this day to the end of time , without our being remembered : we few , we happy few , we band of brothers -- for whoever sheds his blood with me today shall be my brother . However humble his birth , this day shall grant him nobility . And men back in English now safe in their beds will curse themselves for not having been here , and think less of their own manhood when they listen to the stories of those who fought with us here on St. Crispin 's Day .
Oh , correct it completely . Make sure that the clowns do not ad-lib , since some of them will make certain dumb audience members laugh mindlessly at them , while an important issue in the play needs to be addressed . It 's bad behavior for an actor , anyway , and displays a pitiful ambition to hog the limelight on stage .
God alive ! Shall a few offshoots of our nation , born of our father 's lust -- our branches grafted to wild and savage trunks -- grow to such a height that they look down with contempt on the plants from which they first sprang ?
We 'll need some privacy for a little while . Cesario , I want a word with you . You know everything about me . I 've told you all the secrets of my soul . So please go to her house ; if they do n't let you in , plant yourself outside her door and tell them you wo n't leave until they let you see her .
Wait just a minute , you brazen hussy . Are n't you supposed to obey me , your lord and husband ?
So now the good times have ripened and grown rotten . I 've lurked in the shadows here to watch the downfall of my enemies . I 've been watching the terrible prologue to a scene that I hope will prove dark and tragic . I 'll head to France soon . It 's time to hide , wretched Margaret . Who 's coming ?
That upsets me much more than getting wet . And you called the fairy creature harmless , monster .
You defend yourself by blaming my judgment , but you 're just making up feeble excuses .
And you , sweet Hero ?
Listen to me , madam . You are a remarkable person and your loss is equally remarkable . You are responding appropriately to the greatness of that loss . I hope I never achieve success if I do n't feel some of your heartbroken grief right now .
You drunken slave , I sent you for a rope , and I told you what to do with it .
How 's it going , Shylock ? What 's the news among the merchants ?
Yes , the landlady 's maid .
I do n't think you 're treating me fairly .
What 's your name ?
Good lieutenant , is your general married ?
We 've already done that .
It 's possible . If he did it , he 'll answer for it . And with that , farewell .
I 'll do my best , madam .
He should have worn the horns on his head .
But the really unbelievable thing is -- and this is incredible --
Go back again , to be beaten home again ? For God 's sake , send somebody else .
Who ever saw the heavens threaten like this ?
Please wear this ring .
Let me say first , madam , that he is well .
How awful ! Being too old to marry someone young .
Why are you sharpening your knife so eagerly ?
With God 's help . We had a little food and fresh water that a nobleman from Naples , Gonzalo , had given us out of the kindness of his heart . He had been chosen to carry out the plan of putting us to sea . He also gave us clothes , linen , and other necessities that have been of great help . Knowing how much I loved my books , he gave me some books from my library that I value more than my dukedom .
All right . Go on .
Great king , I 've come from Fife , where the Norwegian flag flies , mocking our country and frightening our people . Leading an enormous army and assisted by that disloyal traitor , the thane of Cawdor , the king of Norway began a bloody battle . But outfitted in his battle - weathered armor , Macbeth met the Norwegian attacks shot for shot , as if he were the goddess of war 's husband . Finally he broke the enemy 's spirit , and we were victorious .
And did n't I finally arrive to comfort you ?
Got it ? Be there , or do n't show your face again .
We do n't doubt it .
My lord , the duke of Buckingham 's army --
Come off it , man ! There is n't a single drop of sincerity in him that could be touched with love . If he looks serious , he must need money .
Ha , ha ! What are these things we 're looking at , my lord Antonio ? Can you buy them with money ?
Only good things for you , Thomas . Why are n't you with the Prince , your brother ? He loves you and you are neglecting him . He cares more about you than any of his other brothers , Thomas ; cherish that fact , my boy . After I 'm dead , you 'll be in a strong position to help maintain good relations between Prince Hal and his brothers . So do n't ignore him . Do n't turn away his love , and do n't ruin your good relationship with him by seeming cold or distant . He 's kind if he gets his way ; he has compassion for others , and he 's generous with charity . But despite all this , once he gets angry , he becomes like a stone . He can be as tempestuous as winter , and can change himself as suddenly as snowflakes at dawn can turn to hail . So watch his temper . When he does something wrong , let him know it -- gently , and when he 's in a happy mood . But when he 's ornery , give him room . Wait till his bad mood works itself out , like a beached whale that kills itself by struggling to return to sea . If you can do this , you 'll be a shelter for your friends , and a golden chain that links your brothers together . Once they 're united , the poison of criticism and rumor -- which in this day and age is sure to be aimed at them -- ca n't do them any harm , no matter how explosive and destructive it may be .
Do you hear that , men ? Do you ?
Well , then it is n't one to you , since nothing is really good or bad in itself -- it 's all what a person thinks about it . And to me , Denmark is a prison .
Queen , you knew very well that my heart was tied to your ship and that you would pull me along with you . You knew that my spirit was completely under your control and that I would ignore the gods ' orders in favor of yours .
If it 's the same one , or any one that belongs to her , then together with the other evidence it 's pretty strong .
Please , one of you go ask that man over there if we can buy some food off him . I 'm faint with hunger .
Listen ! A drum !
Please let me say something , I 'm begging you . After you cast your magic spell on me last time , I sent you a ring . I fear it was a mistake , since I tricked my servant , myself , and you too . You probably think poorly of me after I forced that ring on you with such outrageous trickery . What else could you possibly think of me ?
I 'm surprised you enjoy the company of this stupid troublemaker . The other day I saw him defeated in a
He is in heaven , where you will never go .
Uninhabitable and almost inaccessible , as it were --
I wish they were , so that I could die right now , because , at this point , I live a living death . Your eyes have made me cry , shamefully , like a child . I never cried before this . I did n't cry when my father , York , and my brother Edward both wept at the death of my brother Rutland , whom Clifford slaughtered . And when your warrior - father recounted the sad story of my father 's death , pausing to sob twenty times in the course of the story so that all the bystanders ended up dripping tears like trees in a rainstorm -- even then , I refused to cry . But your beauty has made me cry until I could n't see . I never tried to win over a friend or enemy with sweet words . I 'm too proud for that . But if your beauty is the reward for sweet talk , I 'll talk .
I wish I did n't know the reason why the marriage should be slowed down . Look , sir , here comes the lady walking toward my cell .
It says you 're fertile , and you 've got a giving heart . Hot , hot and moist . With a hand like this you need to
If he has a face like yours , a good scratching could n't make him look any worse .
Right you are , very right . That 's for sure , that 's for sure . Death , as the Psalms say , is certain . Everyone dies . How much are they getting for good young bulls at the Stamford county fair ?
Are you going to Scone ?
If that 's true , then do n't be tongue - tied . Come with me , and let 's smother my fiendish son -- who smothered your two sweet sons -- in bitter words .
Her C' s , her U 's , and her T 's . Why focus on that ?
I 'm going to make you look sharp , Laertes . I 'm so bad at the game that your skill will shine like the brightest star in the darkest night .
But you will . Here 's my hand .
I wish I could be as certain of a good dinner .
Get out of my sight .
I 've told you everything I know . Why the nobles were imprisoned , and on what charges , I do n't know , my gracious lord .
Listen to me , Beatrice - -
Lieutenant is better . He 's not standing straight enough to hold a flag .
Shall we call in the ambassador , my liege ?
A mischievous child . Come , come , you are too clever for your own good .
I 'm off .
He 's dead .
What sum does he owe you ?
Stanley , pay attention to your wife 's doings . If she sends any letters to Richmond , you will be accountable to me for it .
By God , you 'll break open a quart bottle together , ha ! Wo n't you , Master Bardolph ?
Wo n't you be glad to see that rascal dog humiliated ?
Get to the point , since we already know the truth .
I do n't understand .
You might as well . But if he had been a man 's tailor , he would have already pricked you with his pins . Will you make as many holes in the enemy 's armor as you have in women 's underwear ?
If he were a horse , watery eyes would lower his value . Men are n't supposed to cry , either .
I 'm telling you , do n't fall in love with me . I 'm more false than the promises a man makes while drunk . Besides , I do n't like you . If you 'd like to know where I live , my house is in the olive grove close by . --Come on , sister . --Shepherd , keep working on her . --Come on , sister . --Shepherdess , give him another chance . And do n't be proud . The whole world could look at you , and no one would be as blind as he is , thinking you 're beautiful . --Come on , to our sheep .
What do you mean , the seventh cause ? My good lord , I hope you like this fellow .
Why , this was modeled on a porridge bowl ! It 's a velvet dish ! No , definitely not ! It 's cheap and nasty ! It 's like a cockleshell or a walnut shell , a joke , a prank , a doll 's cap . Take it away . Bring me a bigger one .
Agreed . What 's the bet ?
Oh yes . Go on , keep walking : our prey is in sight . --I never thought that woman would love any man .
Thebes . " The nine Muses mourning the death of learning and scholarship . " That 's some sharp , critical satire , and it 's not appropriate for a wedding . " A tedious short drama about young Pyramus and his love Thisbe , a very sad and tragic comedy . " A sad comedy ? Short but still tedious ? That 's like hot ice and strange snow . How can this drama be so many contradictory things ?
Captain ? You horrible , damned liar , are n't you ashamed to be called " captain " ? If captains shared my opinions , they 'd beat you for taking their rank without earning it . You , a captain ? You bastard , for what ? For
It 's incredible -- they did n't say a word .
This would be a great night to satisfy a whore 's lust . I 'll recite a prophecy before I go . One day , when priests do n't practice what they preach , When brewers dilute their beer with water , When noblemen teach their tailors how to sew , When instead of heretics being burned at the stake , lovers are burned by syphilis , When every law case is tried fairly , When no gentleman is in debt , When no one slanders anyone else , And thieves do n't snatch wallets in crowds , When moneylenders count their gold in the open air , And pimps and whores build fine churches -- Then the kingdom of England Will come to ruin . And whoever lives to see that day Will walk with his feet . This is the prophecy that the wizard Merlin will make one day . I 'm a little ahead of my time in saying it now .
My reputation , my reputation ! I 've lost my reputation , the longest-living and truest part of myself ! Everything else in me is just animal - like . Oh , my reputation , Iago , my reputation !
But cousin , make sure he woos you properly and appropriately . If he is too insistent , tell him that romance is like a dance : it has its own rhythm and timing . Look , the three stages of romance are like three different dances . The wooing is like a Scottish jig : hot and fast and full of whimsy and illusion . The wedding is a like a dance you would do before the King : proper and decorous . Finally , you get to the part where you regret having gotten married in the first place . It is like the lively cinquepace : it goes faster and faster until you eventually topple over and die .
Sir , you seem from your clothes to be a sober , respectable old gentleman , but your words show you to be a madman . What do you care if I wear pearls and gold ? Thanks to my father , I can afford to .
Yes , my lord . He was the one who denounced his father . He then left the house specifically so that the punishment might be carried out without concern for their father-son bond .
I wo n't fail . From now until then seems like twenty years . I have forgotten why I called you back .
I know the man well .
Where should we go ?
Fled to England ?
We 're close enough now . Throw down these branches and show them who you really are . Uncle Siward , you and your son will lead the first battle . Brave Macduff and I will do the rest , according to our battle plan .
Please , stay till after dinner .
I 'd feel sorry for them , if I were human .
Follow my voice . This is n't a good place to fight .
That 's definitely true , my lord .
We have n't yet encountered that danger , and the best thing to do is avoid it entirely . With that in mind , let 's get on our horses . We 'd better not worry about saying polite good - byes; we should just get away quickly . There 's good reason to escape when there 's no mercy to be found anymore .
I should n't make you do more than you 're able . I know that young men look forward to their rest .
Come here , my dear Hamlet . Sit by me .
Why not ?
In that case , he 's more obliged to you than I am .
Well , I have had my lesson . May good manners bring you success ! Here come our wives ; let 's say our goodbyes .
Farewell , hostess .
You 'll be sorry later , but it 'll be too late . Oh , sir , are you here now ? You decided to come ? Answer me , sir . Get my horses ready .
We 're at your service , my lord .
Do n't kneel , noble Portia .
I 'm sure of it . I have n't said a word .
Our army has grown to twenty-five thousand good men . Our reinforcements are coming with Northumberland , and his heart burns with anger over all he 's lost .
Why are you knocking so hard ? Where do you come from ? What do you want ?
Come , come , I know what you 're referring to , Richard . You resent my friends ' rise in society , and my own . Let 's hope we never need your help for anything .
Lysander , say something ! You coward , did you run away from me ? Say something ! Are you behind some bush ? Where are you hiding ?
And I bet she 's good in bed too .
The king rode out alone to view their troops .
I hope to God we can make him happy and do him some good !
Hail !
Who is so low that he would n't ? Who will advance with me ? I will proclaim my name around the field . I am the son of Marcus Cato ! An enemy to tyrants and a friend to my country . I am the son of Marcus Cato !
On what grounds ?
How good are you at those fast dances ?
Two thousand ducats a year from his land ! All my land together is n't worth that much ! --Aha! I forgot to mention the merchant ship that lies in Marseilles harbor . Sorry -- have I caught you choking on a merchant ship ?
What , has your foolishness paralyzed you completely ?
Oh , no , good gentleman ! Oh no , good Cassio !
And why 's that ?
Get out of here ! Go home , you lazy men . What , is today a holiday ? Do n't you know that working men are n't supposed to walk around on a workday without wearing their work clothes ? You there , speak up . What 's your occupation ?
She 's alive , Master Shallow .
All hail , Macbeth , the future king !
Indeed , before he fell down , when he realized the commoners were glad he refused the crown , he pulled open his robe and offered them his throat to cut . If I 'd been a common laborer and had n't taken him up on his offer , to hell with me . And so he fainted . When he regained consciousness again , he said that if he 'd done or said anything wrong , he wanted them to know that it was all because of his sickness . Three or four women near me cried , " Alas , good soul ! " and forgave him with all their hearts . But never mind them -- if Caesar had stabbed their mothers , they would 've forgiven him .
Now , if our jokes go on a wild-goose chase , I 'm finished . You have more wild goose in one of your jokes than I have in five of mine . Was I even close to you in the chase for the goose ?
I did n't , my lord .
Enjoy yourself , Master Bardolph , and you , my little soldier , enjoy yourself .
No , she does know him , and she also knows all his bad qualities -- and in spite of all this , she still dies for him .
He has killed me , Mother . Run away , I beg you !
Hey ! Where , where ?
Hamlet , what , why ?
Then , Lord Hastings , this is the question : can our twenty-five thousand get the job done without Northumberland ?
I 'm tired of this moon . I wish he 'd wax or wane off the stage .
We 'll come with you , your Grace .
What 's this here ? It 's a cup , closed in my true love 's hand ? Poison , I see , has been the cause of his death . How rude ! He drank it all , and did n't leave any to help me afterward . I will kiss your lips . Perhaps there 's still some poison on them , to make me die with a medicinal kiss . Your lips are warm .
Kneel down to the duke before he passes by the abbey .
I swear to you by Rosalind 's own pretty hand that I am that unfortunate man .
Neither will I.
Go , lad , and take them to the pantry . Make them feel welcome and see to it that they have everything they require .
You may as well undertake to be hanged .
Lovely , most lovely Katherine , will you agree to teach a soldier the words that would recommend his love - suit to a gentle heart like yours ?
Morning , Mr. Gadshill . What I told you last night is still true . There 's a rich landowner all the way from Kent staying here , and he 's got three hundred gold coins with him . I heard him say so to a man at supper last night . That man 's some kind of tax collector , and he has plenty of money with him , too . They just woke up and they 've ordered breakfast ; they 'll be leaving soon .
My lord !
My lord of Orleans , and my lord high Constable , are you talking about horses and armor ?
What , you ignore my kind advice and try to please the devil I 'm warning you about ? Oh , just remember this another day , when he splits your heart in two with sorrow . Then you 'll say poor Margaret was a prophet . Richard will come to hate everyone here , as you will come to hate him -- and as God will come to hate you all .
Excuse me , sir . -- Noble philosopher , come talk to me .
Tell me your idea first .
It 's not appropriate for a soldier to be part of a discussion among noblemen . Do n't speak any further .
That ca n't happen , Master Shallow . Do n't let this upset you ; I 'll get a private invitation to see him . Look , he has to appear this way to the world . Do n't worry about your good fortunes : I 'm still the man who will make you great .
A pound of this merchant 's flesh is yours . The court awards it and the law authorizes it .
If I had some blood on me it would look like I 'd fought more fiercely . I 've seen drunk men do worse than this just fooling around . --Father , father ! --Stop , stop ! --Wo n't anyone help me ?
Good job ! But was this near the shore ?
Hello , beautiful Helena ! Where are you going ?
It would be a pretty stingy love if it could be counted and calculated .
The Lord in heaven bless you , noble Harry !
How ?
What kind of man is he ?
Yes .
Stand with me . Do n't be scared . Guards , get your weapons !
Do you really think so ?
Go to sleep , and I will wrap my arms around you . Fairies , go away . Run off in all directions .
You just have to say , " Do you , Orlando -- "
Four legs and two voices -- a very special monster . One voice speaks well and talks about his friend . The other voice is harsh and abusive . I can charge even more for this . If it takes all the wine in my bottle , I 'll cure him . Come on . CALIBAN drinks That 's good ! Now I 'll pour some in your other mouth .
Captain Macmorris , I think , see -- correct me if I 'm wrong -- there are not many of your nation --
You have the nerve to call me daughter ? Is this a father 's loving care -- wanting to marry me off to a total madman , a worthless , irresponsible louse who thinks if he swears enough , he 'll get his way ?
All my other emotions are vanishing into thin air , as all my doubts and desperation and fears and jealousy are all flying away ! Oh , I need to calm down , make my love and my joy less intense . I 'm feeling this too strongly . Please make my love less , or I 'm going to overindulge , making myself sick .
I do n't want to take another man 's second-hand goods .
I 'll put on some poor and ragged clothes and smudge my face with dirt . You do the same , and we 'll be able to travel without attracting any attackers ' attention .
Ah , sir , you 're here ? Even creatures of the night are n't out tonight in this storm . The angry skies terrify the animals that usually prowl in the dark , making them stay in their caves . Never in my life have I heard such horrible blasts of thunder , such a roaring downpour , such groaning winds . It 's too trying and terrifying for humans to bear .
She speaks . Oh , speak again , bright angel . You are as glorious as an angel tonight . You shine above me , like a winged messenger from heaven who makes mortal men fall on their backs to look up at the sky , watching the angel walking on the clouds and sailing on the air .
But if you were married , you 'd wield some influence .
Gentlemen , it seems to me you 're both out of line to be laying down the law about things that are really up to me . I am no schoolboy , and I wo n't be dictated to with hours and schedules . I 'll have my lessons in the order and manner I prefer . So to cut short this argument , let 's figure this out .
Eunuch ! Mardian !
Where ?
Wake up , sir , wake up . Speak to us .
Oh , how awful !
And what would that accomplish ? He 'll just turn it into a joke and torment the poor woman even more .
I do n't like her name .
Oh , I 'm sure you do n't dislike him so much as to wish he were here alone , even though you say this to find out how the rest of us feel . I do n't think there 's anywhere I 'd rather die than in the king 's company , as his cause is just and honorable .
What if the nurse is asleep and does n't hear us ?
Then heaven have mercy on me .
Again !
No , nothing . We would profane the other dead souls here if we sang the same requiem for her that we sang for them .
God bless you , my friend , and your music too . Do you make your living by playing that drum ?
Noble words , sir .
Yes , sir , but not when I 'm enraged .
God bless you , sir !
Good food 's not a big deal -- everyone can afford that .
Have Montjoy hurry , then , Lord Constable , and have him ask the king of England what he is willing to pay us to get out of the war . Prince Dauphin , you 'll stay with me in Rouen .
Then sing it . It does n't matter if it 's in tune so long as it 's loud enough .
That 's one of them .
If either of you knows any secret reason why you two should not be joined in marriage , I order you on your souls to say so .
Well , then , what should we do for fun instead ?
I know him well . You are welcome for his sake .
I think it would be very hard to arrange for them to have sex while you watched . If anyone sees them in bed together besides themselves , I guess we could damn them then . So what can we do ? What can I say ? What proof is there ? It 'd be impossible for you to watch them , even if they were as horny as animals in heat and as stupid as drunks . But if you would be willing to accept circumstantial evidence as proof , we can get that .
Oh , you wicked scoundrel ! Cassio , how did you get my wife 's handkerchief ?
I 've been invited to supper , Jessica . Here are my keys . --But why should I go ? I was n't invited because they like me . They 're just flattering me . But I 'll go out of spite , to feed off the wasteful Christian . --Jessica , my girl , watch the house . I do n't feel like going . Things are n't going my way right now . I know because I dreamed of money bags last night .
The tunnels ! Tell the duke I 'm not so keen to come to the tunnels . For the tunnels , see , are not strictly in accordance with the proper practice of war . They 're not deep enough . For the enemy , see -- and you can explain this to the duke , see -- has dug its own tunnels four yards below ours . By Jesus , I think they will blow up everything if we do n't improve our tactics .
Very apt ! Your friend is equated with the devil . I 'll go straight for that proverb with " To hell with the devil . "
I 'll never go to sea again , I 'll die here on shore -- This is a rotten song to sing at a man 's funeral . At least I 've got some booze to comfort me . The master , the deck - washer , the boatswain , and I , The gunman and his friend , We loved Moll , Meg , Marian , and Margery But none of us cared for Kate . Kate had a gutter mouth ,
Caesar used Lepidus in the war , but as soon as it was over , Lepidus was expelled from the triumvirate . He was n't allowed any of the glory of the victory , and he was accused of treasonous correspondence with Pompey . On the basis of Caesar 's accusation alone , Lepidus was imprisoned . So the weak third of the triumvirate is imprisoned until death frees him .
Yes , it is .
Yes , " better , " sir .
We need a calendar ! Look in the almanac . Look up moonshine , look up moonshine !
This old ruffian here , whom I did n't kill because he 's so old --
Put to use ?
You 'd rather be tied up for nothing ? Act insane , good master : scream out , " The devil ! "
Well , if she does , you 'll have twelve cushions on your couch again . You have only eleven now , since she 's wearing one of them under her dress . I order both of you to come with me : the man that you two and Pistol beat up is dead .
But why did he take away the crown ?
I hear you 've interpreted some of my actions as being improper , when they were n't improper at all -- or if they were , their impropriety did n't concern you .
That 's enough , Dromio , please . This is n't a good moment for jokes -- save them till a happier time . Where 's the gold I gave you ?
I do n't know . All I know is I 'd rather endure a public whipping every morning than put up with her -- even with a big dowry .
That wo n't work , since I 'm still reaping the rewards of that murder : my crown and my queen . Can a person be forgiven and still keep the fruits of his crime ? In this wicked world , criminals often take the money they stole and use it to buy off the law , shoving justice aside . But not in heaven . Up there , every action is judged for exactly what it 's worth , and we 're forced to confront our crimes . So what can I do ? What is there left to do ? Offer whatever repentance I can -- that could n't hurt . But it ca n't help either ! Oh , what a lousy situation I 'm in . My heart 's as black as death . My soul is stuck to sin , and the more it struggles to break free , the more it sticks . Help me , angels ! C' mon , make an effort . Bend , stubborn knees . Steely heart , be soft as a newborn babe , so I can pray . Perhaps everything will turn out okay after all .
Let my merits shine , then .
From the first time Antony saw her , sailing on her barge on the Cydnus River , he was hers .
Farewell , you second spring ! Farewell , you summer - in - November !
What garment would your Honor like to wear today ?
Help , help , help ! This madman will murder me .
Yup . It 's hot , hot ; it could sack a city .
A gentleman ? What gentleman ?
Come on , friend . The boy will lead our horses down the hill while we walk a bit and stretch our legs .
I disagree . I 've never done you harm . I love you more than you can understand until you know the reason why I love you . And so , good Capulet -- which is a name I love like my own name -- you should be satisfied with what I say .
This repays me . I sent our children 's schoolmaster to Caesar with our offer . Has he returned ? Love , I am full of heaviness . Servants , bring some wine and food ! We have the most contempt for fortune when it goes against us .
The southern wind is playing its trumpet , to announce to the world what the sun means . And judging by the whistling leaves , it 's going to be a stormy , windy day .
My niece , you are welcome here as if you were my own daughter .
I have no idea how .
My nightgown .
Yes , so he says .
Hurry , hurry -- prepare my horse . Tell Lord Stanley to bring his army . I will lead my soldiers to the field and the battle formation will be like this : the vanguard will extend in a line that is equal parts horsemen and foot soldiers . The archers will stay in the middle . John Duke of Norfolk and Thomas Earl of Surrey will lead the horsemen and foot soldiers . I 'll follow in the center of the troop formation , which I 'll defend with my best horse , and with Saint George on my side , as well ! What do you think , Norfolk ?
Yes , and he 's very lucky to have married the woman he did . His wife defies description . She 's God 's masterpiece , and she 'd exhaust whoever tried to do her justice while praising her .
What I 've already said shows you we think alike , so you can draw your own conclusions . All I 'm saying is that strange things have been going on . Macbeth pitied Duncan -- after Duncan was dead . And Banquo went out walking too late at night . If you like , we can say that Fleance must have killed him , because Fleance fled the scene of the crime . Clearly , men should not go out walking too late ! And who can help thinking how monstrous it was for Malcolm and Donalbain to kill their gracious father ? Such a heinous crime -- how it saddened Macbeth ! Was n't it loyal of him to kill those two servants right away , while they were still drunk and asleep ? That was the right thing to do , was n't it ? Yes , and it was the wise thing , too , because we all would have been outraged to hear those two deny their crime . Considering all this , I think Macbeth has handled things well . If he had Duncan 's sons in prison -- which I hope wo n't happen -- they would find out how awful the punishment is for those who kill their fathers , and so would Fleance . But enough of that . I hear that Macduff is out of favor with the king because he speaks his mind too plainly , and because he failed to show up at Macbeth 's feast . Can you tell me where he 's hiding himself ?
Listen , sir , why do you treat me like this ? I always loved you . But it does n't matter . Even a hero like Hercules ca n't keep cats from acting like cats , and dogs like dogs .
Take comfort , lady .
Let your anger fall on me then , even if its sharpness pierces my heart . Kent can speak rudely when Lear goes mad . What are you doing , old man ? When powerful kings cave in to flatterers , do you think loyal men will be afraid to speak out against it ? When a majestic king starts acting silly , then it 's my duty to be blunt .
Though he is honorable --
Good night , good night . I pray that God will let me learn from women like that -- not to follow their bad example , but to avoid it !
Do n't forget . I 've come to sharpen your somewhat dull appetite for revenge . But look , your mother is in shock . Oh , keep her struggling soul from being overwhelmed by horrid visions . The imagination works strongest in those with the weakest bodies . Talk to her , Hamlet .
I got it from you --I never said I did n't .
No need to hurry , he 's not going anywhere .
Then it 's no surprise they had a bad influence on him . They probably put him up to killing old man Gloucester to get his money . Tonight I received a letter from my sister telling me all about them -- and warning me not be at home in case they come to stay at my house .
Young boy , I wish I could make you believe that I 'm in love .
Do n't swear by the moon . The moon is always changing . Every month its position in the sky shifts . I do n't want you to turn out to be that inconsistent too .
Get to the point now . I 'll let you get away with skipping the praise .
Sneaky , dried-up old coot ! We 'll see who gets the upper hand ! I 've already bluffed pretty well -- and without even a face card . I have a mind to help my master . Clearly , the fake Lucentio will have to produce a father -- call him " fake Vincentio " -- and it will be a miracle . Usually fathers produce children , not the other way around . But in this case of wooing , a child shall father his own father -- if my wits do n't fail me .
I think he 'll eat everyone he kills .
Since you know all this is true , why do you blame me for loving you ?
He saves you the trouble : look , here he comes .
Your Highness , there was hot debate about this urgent mission , and many responsibilities had just been assigned when we were suddenly cut off by a messenger with bad news from Wales . The worst of it was that the noble Mortimer , who was leading the men of Herefordshire in battle against that barbarian Glendower , was captured . A thousand of his men have been butchered , their dead corpses desecrated by the Welsh women . The things they did were so horrible that I 'm too ashamed to report them .
No , a flatterer would n't , even if the faults were as huge as Mount Olympus .
Of course not , Signior Benedick . You were only a child when my daughter was born , and not yet old enough to seduce my wife .
God have mercy ! Then I 'd surely have heartburn .
We hope you feel better and find some peace .
been tricked or drugged , because there 's no way she could have made this mistake on her own .
I 'll die an old maid unless I can be won according to the rules set by my father 's will . I 'm glad these suitors are sensible enough to stay away . The only thing I like about them is that they 're not there . I wish them all safe trips home .
Bring the armor and follow me . I will not be afraid of death and destruction until Birnam forest picks itself up and moves to Dunsinane .
You should know I 've earned a thousand gold pieces from Don John .
May I speak , Caesar .
Goodbye , Launcelot .
Please do . Goodbye .
The sailors are all below deck , sleeping both from their labor and from a magic spell I cast over them . As for the rest of the ships , I scattered them , and they 've gathered again in the Mediterranean , sailing sadly home to Naples , believing that they witnessed the shipwreck and death of their great king .
Is it possible ? Is that the way the wind is blowing ?
Whatever you are , thanks for your advice . You have guessed exactly what I feared . But one word more --
Take me .
In the palm of her hand , which is covered in calluses .
Look , here she comes ! This is exactly how she always looks , and --I swear it -- she is fast asleep . Watch her . Keep hidden .
He 's a smart boy . I bet he slipped away and went home to bed .
My lord , when I arrived at their home I gave them your letter . Before I had a chance to get up from my respectful kneeling position , Goneril 's messenger arrived , stinky , sweaty , and out of breath . He interrupted me , spouted out greetings from her , and delivered her letter , which they opened immediately . After reading it , they gathered their entourage together and got on their horses to go . They glared at me and ordered me to follow them and wait for their answer . After we arrived here , I ran into that other messenger who made them give me the cold shoulder -- the very same guy who was so rude to you , King . I admit it was foolish to draw my sword on him , but I had to act like a man . He woke up the whole house with his loud and cowardly screams . That 's why your daughter and son-in-law are punishing me shamefully .
I 'll take a torch . Let playful people with light hearts dance . There 's an old saying that applies to me : you ca n't lose if you do n't play the game . I 'll just hold a torch and watch you guys . It looks like a lot of fun , but I 'll sit this one out .
He was like that time of year halfway between the extremes of hot and cold : he was neither sad nor happy .
If he is , that 's his problem .
" If any noble man in the army asserts that Edmund , so-called Earl of Gloucester , is a traitor many times over , let him step forward by the third trumpet blast . "
Not to his father 's house . I asked a servant .
It 's burnt . The whole thing is burnt . You bastards ! Where is that moron of a cook ? You devils ! How dare you serve it to me this way ! There , take it all back -- plates , cups , the whole thing . You careless blockheads and unwashed slaves ! I heard that ! I 'll deal with you in a minute .
Hist , Romeo ! Hist ! Oh , I wish I could make a falconer 's call , so I could bring my little falcon back again . I 'm trapped in my family 's house , so I must be quiet . Otherwise I would rip open the cave where falconer 's sleeps . I would make her repeat his name until her voice grew more hoarse than mine by repeating , " My Romeo ! "
Look at this . Take your royal time and read about the quarrels she encouraged . And saving the best for last , read when and where she died .
Oh , gods ! Who can ever say , " This is as bad as it can get " ? I 'm worse off now than ever before .
Maybe , but I wish I 'd never laid eyes on him .
Do n't deny to him that you love me .
I 'll do my best .
Prepare the horses for your lady .
Here 's gold for you . You must n't hold my earlier outburst against me . I 'll hire you again to go back to Rome . I find that you 're very good at this kind of work . Go , prepare to travel . My letters are ready to go .
Come here , you . Where are you coming from ?
Ingratitude is always hideous , but an ungrateful child is uglier than a sea monster !
Alonso enjoys these comforting words about as much as cold oatmeal .
He was standing here in the dark with his sword pointing at me . He was mumbling some black magic spells , appealing to the moon to help him in his evil plans --
What can we do to find out if it 's true ?
I swear , you 'll make me cry if you talk like that . I wo n't wear any beautiful clothing till you return . Well , we 'll see what happens .
Where is he ?
Now Romeo 's old feelings of desire are dying , and a new desire is eager to take their place . Romeo groaned for the beautiful Rosaline and said he would die for her , but compared with tender Juliet , Rosaline does n't seem beautiful now . Now someone loves Romeo , and he 's in love again -- both of them falling for each others ' good looks . But he has to make his speeches of love to a woman who 's supposed to be his enemy . And she 's been hooked by someone she should fear . Because he 's an enemy , Romeo has no chance to see Juliet and say the things a lover normally says . And Juliet 's just as much in love as he , but she has even less opportunity to meet her lover . But love gives them power , and time gives them the chance to meet , sweetening the extreme danger with intense pleasure .
Go ask . If he 's married , I think I 'll die rather than marry anyone else .
Why , sir , he 's not coming .
You 'll be afraid to hear it .
Because of the old saying : " He who eats with the devil needs a very long spoon . " You need to keep far away from them .
My name 's Roderigo .
Now , Balthazar , you 've always been honest and faithful to me , and I trust you still are . Take this letter to Padua as fast as you can . Make sure you put it into the hands of my cousin Bellario , the Doctor of Laws .
Here , kiss the Bible and swear . You may swim like a duck , but you look more like a goose .
Indeed , the French can bet twenty French crowns to one that they 'll beat us , they have such an army . But it 's no treason for an Englishman to cut off a French crown -- a head , I mean -- and tomorrow the king himself will do some snipping .
What handkerchief ?
I mean , what do the words say ?
Who 's blocking the way ?
We came here to fight against you .
It 's easy to get there . I 'll go there and ascertain their next move .
All right , here 's the map . Shall we divide up our territories according to our three-way agreement ?
I 'm glad to see you go . Adieu , good Mr. Depression .
I give you all this land , from this line to that one --dense forests , fertile fields , rivers rich with fish , wide meadows . This land will belong to your and Albany 's children forever . --And now what does my second daughter Regan , the wife of Cornwall , have to say ? Tell me .
I know you , Mistress Dorothy .
You do n't know a thing ! You give your best praise to the worst women . But how would you praise a truly good woman , someone who had no reason to worry about what anyone said about her ?
You see , her eyes are open .
I pay you because you 're poor , not because you want me to buy this .
You take up your duties too cheerfully . This must be your daughter .
He 's not there today . He 's in London .
Give us your money !
But it 's hard to make you angry .
Bless your heart .
That 's like giving someone a dog as a present , and then asking for the dog back in return .
Luce , let my master in .
If I ever change my mind , you can use me for target practice . And whoever hits the bull 's eye gets to be a hero .
Away , get out of here . Leave me , my friend . There 's nothing you can do to help me now , and being with me puts your life in danger .
You , sir ? Who are you ?
Iago .
I see you like to make big offers , sir . First you taught me how to beg , and now I think you 're teaching me how a beggar should be answered .
Then I 'll change it to this : Father Time himself is bald , so for all time there will be bald men .
Oh , but if it did , your guts would fall down to your knees ! Sirrah , there 's no room in your chest for trustworthiness , truthfulness , or honesty . It 's all filled up with guts and stomach . Accuse an honest woman of picking your pocket ? You son of a whore ; you rude , bloated cheat . I 'll be damned if there was anything in your pocket besides tavern bills , notes about whorehouses , and a penny 's worth of candy for energy . If you had anything else in your pockets , then I 'm a liar ; yet you stand by your lies . You wo n't even try to hide how bad you are . Are n't you ashamed of yourself ?
Ungrateful traitor ! That 's him .
Oh , nonsense . It 's not going to appear .
No , really , I do n't .
If my eyes ever lie to me like that , let my tears turn into flames and burn them for being such obvious liars ! A woman more beautiful than the one I love ? The sun itself has never seen anyone as beautiful since the world began .
That 's what he says .
On my knees I thank you again and again . And I consider myself fortunate to have fallen into the hands of a knight -- to my mind , the noblest , most valiant , and most distinguished gentleman of England .
If you really feel that way , then I hope you wo n't kill me .
The reason is that it 's what I want . I 'm not coming . That 's enough for the senate . But for your private satisfaction , because I love you , I 'll tell you . Calphurnia , my wife , is keeping me at home . Last night , she dreamed she saw a statue of me with a hundred holes in it , like a fountain with pure blood flowing from it , and many happy Romans came smiling and washed their hands in it . She takes these signs for warnings and predictions of terrible evils to come , and , on her knee , she begged me to stay home today .
And we will enjoy ourselves . Now 's the best time of night .
Then your lips will feel them more quickly . Shallow thinking , yet again . Come on .
Get lost , you dwarf , you tiny little weed , you scrap , you acorn !
Let 's hear . Oooh , no ! The high note 's off .
Do n't be cruel , Demetrius . I know you love Hermia , and you know I know it . Right here , right now , I swear I 'm giving up all my claims on her and handing her to you . In exchange , give up your claim to love Helena , since I love her and will love her until I die .
Not until you pass out . I 'm afraid you 'll keep going until then .
I was n't talking to any man at that time , my lord .
I just want to be honorable and pay off the big debts that piled up when I was living the high life . I 'm in debt to many people , and I owe most to you , Antonio -- both money and gratitude . And because you care about me , I know you 'll let me tell you my plan to clear all my debts .
He is , my lord . But this would be too cold a place to sleep if he had n't warmed himself with ale .
Oh , you 're sticking a dagger in me ! I 'll never see my gold again . Eighty ducats in one shot ! Eighty ducats !
Jack , sirrah , your horse is there behind the hedge . When you need him , that 's where you 'll find him . So long , and be brave .
When sadness wounds your heart , And pain takes over your mind , Then music with her silver sound --
It was yesterday , your highness .
Old rabbit meat is good to eat , If you ca n't get anything else . But if it 's so old , That it goes bad before you eat it , Then it was a waste of money .
No ? Come on , brother ! I 'm determined to be heard by someone .
I do , in fact . Right now you swear to me that you are a virgin ; if you were a poet , I might have some hope you were lying .
That will kill our lovers . We know how much they suffer if we are unkind to them . If we leave , it will feel like nothing less than death to them .
the lustful god Apollo runs away from the virginal nymph Daphne who pursues him , the dove chases after the griffin , which is usually its predator , and the gentle deer tries to hunt down the tiger -- speed is useless when the cowardly person chases and the brave person runs away .
I wish I had never left Egypt and that you had never come to Egypt .
I take all responsibility for my decisions . I want the law , the penalty , and the fulfillment of my contract .
What a king Claudius is !
Never , my lord . So prepare to die .
What nerve !
Why should I commit suicide like one of the ancient Romans ? As long as I see enemies of mine alive , I would rather see my sword wound them than me .
You 're right , Charmian . She 's both dull - spoken and dwarfishly little . --Did she carry herself with majesty ? Compare her to any memory you might have of royalty .
He 'd left some unfinished business , which he remembered after arriving here . It was urgent and important enough to require his personal presence .
You should listen to reason . Then you 'd stop being so gloomy .
But I 'm still afraid of him , because the deep-rooted love he has for Caesar --
Shylock , are you listening ?
The heavens were all on fire , and the earth trembled .
Yes , it truly is .
It would be better if they were all on his father 's side , or that there were none at all on his father 's side . As it is , the rivalry between his father 's and mother 's relatives over who will be closest to the king is likely to endanger everyone , if we 're not lucky . As it stands , there 's a struggle between the two sides for the prince 's attention . Richard , the duke of Gloucester , is very dangerous , and the queen 's sons and brothers are haughty and proud -- it would be better for this ailing country if they were subjects , not rulers .
Oh , do you think we 'll ever meet again ?
Yup .
What are you going to do ? You wo n't kill me , will you ? Help !
Remove your armor , Eros . The long day 's work is over , and it is time to sleep . Permission to leave unharmed is abundant payment for your news . Go !
Now I 've paid you back , Parthia , and gotten revenge for Marcus Crassus ' death . Carry King Orodes ' son at the front of our army , so all the Parthians will know --Orodes , Pacorus pays for Marcus Crassus !
Not bad , actually . This is all quite pleasant . Where is my wife ?
What I deserve is that you treat me like a queen , and what you deserve is to act like my subjects . Give me what I deserve , and do your duty !
He is , because he told Antonius to tell you he 'd be there tomorrow .
Captain Macmorris , I beg your pardon , but would you grant me a discussion or two with you , see , partly touching on or concerning the practice of war , the Roman wars , for the sake of argument , see , and friendly conversation ? Partly to confirm my opinion and partly for the satisfaction , see , of my mind , with respect to the demands of proper military practice -- that 's the point ?
How amazing ! How many wonderful creatures there are here ! Mankind is so beautiful ! Oh , what a wonderful new world , that has such people in it !
Let 's give a fair verdict .
The table 's full .
Not me .
Do n't do it with poison . Strangle her in her bed , the same bed she 's contaminated .
-- followed you on your sad wanderings , ever since your bad luck began .
Lucentio , sir .
Girls younger than she often marry and become happy mothers .
Sweet love , I 'd rather close my eyes than look at darkness .
And a famous and loyal subject captured him .
It 's been longer , it 's been longer . Lucentio 's son is older than that , sir . He 's thirty years old .
What can I do for you , sir ?
Listen , Hortensio . I think this gentleman 's arrival could be most fortunate -- both for himself and for us .
You wo n't get any bad cooks from me . I 'll test them by making them lick their fingers .
With Cassio ? That 's impossible .
Lysander , keep your Hermia . I do n't want her . If I ever loved her , all that love is gone now . My love for her was temporary . Now I 'll love Helena forever .
Tell me , rainbow , do you know if either Venus , the goddess of love , or her son , Cupid , is accompanying Queen Juno ? Ever since Venus and her blind son plotted a way for the god of the underworld to steal my daughter away for half the year , I swore I 'd never speak to them again .
Your ships are not well crewed . Your sailors are mule drivers , harvesters -- men who were drafted quickly and have little training . Caesar 's fleet is manned by mariners who already have experience battling Pompey . His ships are maneuverable . Yours are slow and awkward . Refusing to fight him at sea wo n't disgrace you . You 've prepared for a land war .
You ca n't see them .
Honestly , I ca n't . I 'm just wandering , with no particular destination . But I know you 'd never force me to tell you things I do n't want to , so I should be polite and tell you what I can . My name 's Sebastian , though I 've been calling myself Roderigo . My father was Sebastian of Messaline . I know you 've heard of him . He 's dead now . He left behind myself and my twin sister , who was born in the same hour as me . If God had been willing , I wish we had died in the same hour too ! But you kept that from happening . An hour before you pulled me out of the breaking waves , my sister drowned .
Maybe it 's a parade to welcome us to town , master .
He is coming .
Yes , dear little chick , come along with me . --Shut up , man ! You 're serious enough to know not to play games with Satan . Damn that dirty black coalminer of a devil !
How to keep the devil away and kill rats .
Tell him to prepare himself for death , for I 'm going to cut his throat .
I did n't think I would see you here .
Oh , she knew very well that you were acting like you were in love without really knowing what love means . But come on , inconsistent young man , come with me . I 'll help you with your secret wedding . This marriage may be lucky enough to turn the hatred between your families into pure love .
Good . --Now come , Ariel ! Better to have an extra servant on hand than be understaffed . Appear before me now quickly --
I do n't know how you know the things you do , but I insist that you answer my questions . I command you in the name of whatever dark powers you serve . I do n't care if you unleash violent winds that tear down churches , make the foamy waves overwhelm ships and send sailors to their deaths , flatten crops and trees , make castles fall down on their inhabitants ' heads , make palaces and pyramids collapse , and mix up everything in nature . Tell me what I want to know .
Yes , ma'am .
Words before fighting . Is that how it is , countrymen ?
Oh , here comes my Nurse , and she brings news . Every voice that mentions Romeo 's name sounds beautiful . Now , Nurse , what 's the news ? Is that the rope ladder Romeo told you to pick up ?
In ancient times , before there were laws to make the land safe and peaceful , a lot of blood was spilled . Yes , and since then murders have been committed that are too awful to talk about . It used to be that when you knocked a man 's brains out he would just die , and that would be it . But now they rise from the dead with twenty fatal head wounds and push us off our stools . This haunting business is even stranger than murder .
Edmund , where 's your wicked brother ?
If we can do that , everything will be all right . Now sit down , everybody , and rehearse your parts --Pyramus , you start . When you have said your lines , go hide in that bush . --Everyone else , go there too when you 're not onstage .
Hello , friends . When are we going to have fun together again ? Just name the time . We never see you anymore . Does it have to be that way ?
You 've faced many things , have n't you ?
I 'll go get the truth of this from Antony . Sir , sir , are you so badly off that we must abandon you to your fate ? Even your dearest friend has abandoned you .
Not if you want to keep your arms ! If you hit me , that proves you 're not a gentleman . And if you 're not a gentleman , you do n't have any arms .
I 'm sure I would have . Did it stay a long time ?
Yes , that incestuous , adulterous animal . With his clever words and fancy gifts , he seduced my seemingly virtuous queen , persuading her to give in to his lust . They were evil words and gifts to seduce her like that ! Oh , Hamlet , how far she fell ! She went from me , who loved her with the dignity and devotion that suits a legitimate marriage , to a wretch whose natural gifts were poor compared to mine . But just as you ca n't corrupt a truly virtuous person no matter how you try , the opposite is also true : a lustful person like her can satisfy herself in a heavenly union and then move on to garbage . But hang on , I think I smell the morning air . So let me be brief here . Your uncle snuck up to me while I was sleeping in the orchard , as I always used to do in the afternoon , and poured a vial of henbane poison into my ear -- that poison that moves like quicksilver through the veins and curdles the blood , which is just what it did to me . I broke out in a scaly rash that covered my smooth body with a revolting crust . And that 's how my brother robbed me of my life , my crown , and my queen all at once . He cut me off in the middle of a sinful life .
My lord , I have some mementos of yours that I 've been meaning to give back to you for a long time now . Please take them .
I ca n't go any further , sir . This is as good a place as any to die .
The air on which they ride is infected . Damn all those who trust them ! I heard the galloping of horses . Who was it that came here ?
I remember your eyes quite well . Are you squinting at me ? Go ahead , try to make me fall in love , blind Cupid . I wo n't ever love again . Read this letter . Just look at the handwriting .
I think his soul 's in hell , my lady .
My lord ?
What , is the man crazy ?
Watch out , boy -- remember I can whip you .
Antony 's grand navy is prepared .
And you have to cut this flesh from his chest . The law allows it , and the court awards it .
You do that . Well done .
Take him away ! Who did this to him ?
Not that we love words more than fighting , like you do .
Who sent them there ?
They know how to follow orders .
From which king , you beggar ? Speak , or die .
Yes , he 's both crazy and a beggar .
I humbly thank you .
Come on , you principled ass , you timid fool ! Why are you blushing ? What a womanly solider you are ! Is it that big a deal to deflower a two-quart tankard of ale ?
No , Romeo will respond to the letter 's writer , telling him whether he accepts the challenge .
The king is coming .
Why , now you 're talking like a good son and a true gentleman . I 'll prove to you as clearly as daylight that I 'm innocent of your father 's death , and am struck with grief over it .
No , Regan . I 'll never curse you . You 're so gentle , you 'd never be harsh like her . Her eyes are vicious , but yours are comforting . You 'd never deny me my pleasures , downsize my entourage , insult me thoughtlessly , reduce my allowance , or lock me out of the house . You know better than she does how important the duties of a child to a parent are , and the responsibilities that come from gratitude . You have n't forgotten the half of a kingdom I gave you .
Yes , strange -- and totally made up too . I 'll never believe any of these old legends or fairy tales . Lovers and madmen hallucinate about things that sane people just ca n't understand . Lunatics , lovers , and poets all are ruled by their overactive imaginations . some people think they see devils and monsters everywhere -- and they 're lunatics . Lovers are just as crazy , and think a dark-skinned gypsy is the most gorgeous woman in the world . Poets are always looking around like they 're having a fit , confusing the mundane with the otherworldly , and describing things in their writing that simply do n't exist . All these people have such strong imaginations that , when they feel happy , they assume a god or some other supernatural being is bringing that happiness to them . Or if they 're afraid of something at night , they look at the shrubbery and imagine it 's a wild bear !
My good lord --
Be quiet , Kent . Do n't get in my way when I 'm angry . I loved Cordelia most of all and planned to spend my old age with her taking care of me . Go
Has the former thane of Cawdor been executed yet ? Have n't the people in charge of that come back ?
Okay , now it starts !
Quiet , children , quiet . The king loves you very much . Innocent sweethearts , you have no idea who 's responsible for your father 's death .
Puff ? Puff in your face , you degenerate coward ! Sir John , I 'm your Pistol and your friend , and I rode at full tilt to find you here . I bring you reports , and good luck , and golden times , and happy , valuable news .
My Cordelia , even the gods admire how much you 've sacrificed for me . Have I hugged you yet ? Anyone who wants to separate us will have to smoke us out of the cave of our togetherness like foxes . Wipe your eyes .
Do you acknowledge the contract ?
Sir ?
They say Gloucester 's bastard son is .
You look too much like the ghost of Banquo . Go away ! Your crown hurts my eyes . Your blond hair , which looks like another crown underneath the one you 're wearing , looks just like the first king 's hair . Now I see a third king who looks just like the second . Filthy hags ! Why are you showing me this ? A fourth ! My eyes are bulging out of their sockets ! Will this line stretch on forever ? Another one ! And a seventh ! I do n't want to see any more . And yet an eighth appears , holding a mirror in which I see many more men . And some are carrying double balls and triple scepters , meaning they 're kings of more than one country ! Horrible sight ! Now I see it is true , they are Banquo 's descendants . Banquo , with his blood - clotted hair , is smiling at me and pointing to them as his .
This poor guy 's partly confessed his plan . Did you plan Cassio 's death with him ?
Where , good Miss Mary ?
Friends , you are becoming tedious .
That 's a merry heart ! Master Silence , I 'll drink a toast to you in a minute .
Let him mount the pulpit . We 'll listen to him . Noble Antony , mount the podium .
Despite how shaken and pale with worry we are , let 's take advantage of this moment of peace to catch our breath , and as we pant we 'll speak about the battles we 'll soon fight in foreign lands . England will no longer be wet with her own people 's blood . War will no longer damage her fields , and warhorses will no longer trample her flowers . The soldiers on either side of this vicious civil war were countrymen and brothers , as similar to one another as shooting stars . They may have clashed recently , but now they will march together in beautiful formation , no longer struggling against family and friend . War is like a mishandled knife : it can cut its owner , but it will no longer cut us . My friends , we are now soldiers for Christ , and we take his blessed cross as our battle flag . We 'll raise a new army of Englishmen and march all the way to the Holy Land . Our soldiers were born to chase non-believers from that holy ground touched by Jesus ' feet -- feet which , fourteen hundred years ago , were nailed to the cross for our sins .
I had no idea she was cheating on me . I never saw it or suspected it , so it never hurt me . I slept well , ate well , and was happy . I never saw Cassio 's kisses on her lips . A man who 's robbed , but does n't miss what 's stolen , is n't robbed at all .
Then you must take the truth I have to tell like a Roman . It 's certain that she is dead , and she died in a strange way .
Give me your hand . I 'm sorry I hit you . But try to control your speech .
It 's not a false gallop , anyway .
Was my father a traitor , Mother ?
You 're forgetting your Stoic philosophy if you allow chance misfortunes to upset you .
His eyes seem frantic ! He looks like someone with a strange tale to tell .
It 's his handwriting , my lord , but I hope he did n't mean what he wrote .
Go to hell , you whore !
Lead the way , sir .
It 's absolutely true , so take good care of it .
Master Constable - -
Here comes my servant , Travers . I sent him last Tuesday to find out what was happening .
Go to the platform , Brutus .
In her forehead , which is enormous because of her receding hairline .
Me too .
It was just like in real life , dark brown with silver whiskers in it .
Arm myself ?
Definitely . He 's quite simply the smartest working-man in Athens .
True . Everything except something to live on .
Oh Nerissa , my poor little body is tired of this great big world .
Yes , every man forward . Brutus will lead , and we 'll follow him with the boldest and best hearts of Rome .
Come over here and sit down on this flowery bed while I caress those lovable cheeks . I 'll put roses on your silky , smooth head and kiss your big , beautiful ears , my gentle darling .
Oh , my lord , when wisdom and passion are in one body , it 's ten to one that the passion will win . I am sorry for her , as I should be , since I am both her uncle and her guardian .
Get him to say his prayers , Sir Toby , get him to pray .
Yes , we 're the privates in her army .
We 'll follow you . Juliet , the count is waiting for you .
All offenses come from the heart , my lord , and nothing intended to offend your Majesty ever came from mine .
If you were n't a man , then what kind of animal were you when you first told me you wanted to do this ? When you dared to do it , that 's when you were a man . And if you go one step further by doing what you dared to do before , you 'll be that much more the man . The time and place were n't right before , but you would have gone ahead with the murder anyhow . Now the time and place are just right , but they 're almost too good for you . I have suckled a baby , and I know how sweet it is to love the baby at my breast . But even as the baby was smiling up at me , I would have plucked my nipple out of its mouth and smashed its brains out against a wall if I had sworn to do that the same way you have sworn to do this .
What are you thinking ?
He 's gone , and his wife 's dead .
Stop , Sir Toby ! I order you to stop !
Respectfully put . Go on .
I would n't want to stay here and make you angry .
He 's the most stubborn dog that ever lived among humans .
No , it 's you : my better half . My eye 's clear vision , my heart 's most precious desire . My food , my fortune , my sweetest hope , my heaven on earth , and my entrance to heaven .
Time is always bankrupt : it owes more than it can ever pay back in a season . And Time 's a thief , too --do n't you know the old saying , " Time steals along " ? So if Time is in debt and also a thief , and a cop comes , do n't you think Time would turn back an hour ?
Saying , " Oh , Cassio , " it seems , judging by his gestures .
He has a very gloomy attitude .
I would 've stayed to cheer you up , if your nobler friends had n't shown up .
They did , Fluellen .
Here comes the Earl .
How many noblemen were killed in the battle you just fought ?
Master , master , I 've been on the lookout so long , I 'm ready to fall down dead -- but I 've got one , finally ! There 's a trustworthy old fellow coming down the hill who will do the job .
Did I , Bardolph ?
Who 's shouting so loudly ?
Do n't worry about that . If he 's reluctant , I can convince him . He loves to hear me tell him how men can be snared by flatterers , just like unicorns can be captured in trees , elephants in holes , and lions with nets . When I tell him he hates flatterers , he agrees , just at the moment when I 'm flattering him the most . Let me work on him . I can put him in the right mood , and I 'll bring him to the Capitol .
You have weapons ? What 's going on here ?
Okay , I will --on Fridays and Saturdays , and the rest .
Just being thanked is more than enough for me , madam . I hope all reports about me simply tell the truth , no more or less .
Yes , I have great cause to be thankful . I 'm more likely to forget how to use my own hand than how to reward virtue and merit as they deserve .
Richmond is sailing on the sea .
What kind of weapon does he use ?
What 's wrong , Blunt ? You look like there 's an emergency .
Does Antony have so little respect for Caesar ?
Wait ! Do n't hurt him , for God 's sake ! He 's crazy ! Somebody approach him and take away his sword . Tie up Dromio , too , and take them to my house .
My lord , I have thought over the request you just made of me .
Oh , heaven help us !
Can you help me ? What 's your answer ?
I do dare , and I say that you are the villain .
Well , stay honest , stay honest . God bless your undertaking .
Why are you talking like this ? I never hurt you . You waved your sword at me for no reason , but I was nice to you . I did n't hurt you .
Then your other senses must be getting worse because of the trauma of blindness .
Really , I 'll help . It must go like this .
I 'm very sorry you 're not feeling well .
But where is he ?
Be patient , sir ! Do n't do this ! This will hurt your reputation and make your wife , who 's innocent , look suspicious . Look , you 've known her a long time . She 's wise , serious , mature , and modest . All this suggests that she has a good reason for doing this to you . Let 's assume that she has a reason , which you do n't know yet : have faith that she 'll eventually explain why she shut the doors on you today . Listen to me . Be patient and leave , and we 'll all go to the Tiger for lunch . In the evening , come back alone and figure out this strange resistance . If you get violent and break in now , in broad daylight , people will talk about it . The common mob will presume things , and your untarnished reputation will be damaged -- and that damage will last long after you 're dead . Slander passes from generation to generation , and once it sticks to a family , it 's there forever .
I wish all her lovers had given her up . Well , to be on the safe side -- so I do n't go back on my promise --I plan to get myself married to a wealthy widow within the next three days . She 's been after me for years -- the way I 've been for this proud , haughty hag . Farewell , then , Signior Lucentio . From now on , goodness in women , not superficial beauty , will win my heart . I bid you all goodbye . I 've made up my mind , and I 'm going to stick to it .
Thank you . God be with you .
My husband !
What 's the news , my good friends ?
God willing , our love and our happiness will only increase as we get older .
If you 'd like to see a scene played out between a man growing pale with unrequited love and a woman glowing with scorn and proud disdain , come with me a short distance and you 'll witness it .
She 's not good enough for you , then . How old is she ?
Get ready for the third hit , Laertes . You 're just playing around . Come on , give me your best shot . I sense you 're treating me like a child .
Oh ! As reliable as a horse that never gets tired .
Come here , boy . I took you prisoner in Parthia , and at that time I made you swear to try to do whatever I ordered you to , except take your own life . Come now , keep your oath . Now you 'll be a free man . Take this good sword , which ran through Caesar 's bowels , and plunge it in my chest . Do n't hesitate . Here , take the handle , and when my face is covered as it is now , use the sword .
Your position permits you to , but I think that those who stick their hands in pitch get their hands dirty . If you encounter a thief , I think the most peaceable thing to do is to let him be himself -- and steal away .
That 's too bad , because I spent a long time memorizing it , and it 's poetic .
Standing here filthy from traveling , and sweating with my desire to see him ; thinking of nothing else , disregarding everything , as if the only thing in the world that mattered was seeing him .
Look , if you love me , stay .
Do n't cry , sweet queen ; your trickling tears do no good .
If you 've changed into anything , it 's an ass .
You 're wrong about that , I assure you . So if you value your life at all , be on your guard . Your opponent has enough youth , strength , skill , and anger to outfight anyone .
King Lear , I 've always honored you as king , loved you as my father , obeyed you as my master , and thanked you in my prayers --
In cash .
Why are you acting so brazen toward my lady ?
You 're an expert commentator , are n't you ?
Let me stand here until you remember your reason .
Why , may I ask ?
Uncle , this man is a Montague - -our enemy . He 's a scoundrel who 's come here out of spite to mock our party .
What did the girl say when the priest got up ?
I swear --
Yes , from Normandy .
Sweet mistress --I do n't know what other name to give you , or how you 've figured out mine -- you seem as
Sir , welcome to our house . But action speaks louder than words , so I 'll cut short these polite words .
Please , write down " Borachio . " --And yours ?
Since you asked , I suppose it 's not bragging to say that we are .
do n't make you look like counterfeits next to me , and if my fame does n't outshine yours like the full moon outshines the stars -- well then , you can call me a liar . Now give me what I deserve , and let my merits mount on top of each other , in a great pile .
Oh , look , Titinius , look ! Those villains , our soldiers , flee ! I 've become an enemy to my own soldiers ! This standard-bearer here of mine was running away , so I killed him and took the flag from him .
Oh , shut up ! I 'll stop your mouth with a kiss .
Ask him again to return with you , my lord . He 's beginning to lose his mind .
You can doubt all these things if this sweet lady turns out to be guilty .
Yes , I swear , and he hopes you 'll join his party to help . For that reason he sends you this good news -- that this very day your enemies , the queen 's relatives , will die at Pomfret .
I 'm sure he is , when anything good 's being said . Go , tap him on the shoulder . I must speak with him .
I 'll keep your words of wisdom close to my heart . But , my dear brother , do n't be like a bad priest who fails to practice what he preaches , showing me the steep and narrow way to heaven while you frolic on the primrose path of sin .
And hot as ginger . He is an animal worthy of Perseus . He is pure air and fire . The duller elements of earth and water have no part in him , except in the moment of patient stillness when his rider mounts him . He is indeed worthy of the name " horse , " and you can call all the rest beasts .
That 's the melody , played by Nobody .
You 're both wrong . Here , where I point my sword , the sun rises . It 's quite near the south , since it 's still winter . About two months from now , the dawn will break further toward the north , and due east is where the Capitol stands , here .
He called her a whore . A beggar could n't have called his slut worse names .
I 'm not worried . I 've seen both of you fence . But since Laertes is better , we 've given him a handicap . He 's got to outdo you by three hits to win .
Upon my life , my lord , I 'll do it . Have a restful night !
Do you see how afraid she is ? Watch her , we 'll get the whole story . Keep an eye on her . Do you see ? The guilty speak volumes even when they 're silent .
I 'm stunned , to tell you the truth .
What 's his name ?
And what did Jaques say ? Did n't he take the opportunity to draw a moral from the scene ?
Do n't miss our feast .
Looking just like the dead king .
Make me believe it ? You might as well make the one you love believe it , which she 's more likely to do than admit that she does -- that 's one of the ways that women fool their own consciences . But really , are you the one who 's been hanging on the trees those poems that speak so admiringly of Rosalind ?
And the Prince and Claudio , who accused her , are innocent as well , because they were deceived by Don John . Margaret is partially guilty , although our investigation shows that she acted unintentionally .
By my sword , Beatrice , you love me .
Sir , my king , do n't waste your time mulling over how strange this business is . When the time is right , and it 'll be soon , I promise I alone will explain everything that 's happened . Until then , be cheerful and keep an open mind . Come here , spirit ; set Caliban and his fellow slaves free . Break the spell that enslaves them to me .
Why did n't they just kill us that night ?
I humbly thank you , sir . Here is the man , the Moor . It seems you had your own reasons for summoning him here .
My lord , I have news for you .
I was his daughter when your Highness took my father 's dukedom . I was his daughter when you banished him . Treason is not inherited , my lord . But even if we did inherit it from our family , what does that have to do with me ? My father was n't a traitor . So , please , my lord , do n't assume that I 'm treacherous just because I 'm poor , with no titles to my name .
Oh , that 's a good wish ! You 'll fight with him eventually , and fall . But let 's put these jokes aside for a moment , and speak earnestly . Is it possible that you could have fallen in love with Orlando , Sir Rowland 's youngest son , this suddenly ?
If you complain any more , I 'll split an oak tree and lock you up in it till you 've howled for twelve years .
Come on then . Over my dead body .
Good Mr. Charles ! Tell me , what 's the latest news at the new court ?
It 's not true . The gown was made just as my master was directed . Grumio gave the order for how it should be done .
Yes , what time is it ?
So I came up from my cabin with my robe tied around me , groped in the dark to find what I was looking for , found it , looked through their packet of papers , and returned to my cabin again . I was bold enough to open the document containing the king 's instructions . And there I found , Horatio , such royal mischief -- a precisely worded order , sugared with lots of talk about Denmark 's well-being and England 's too , to cut off my head , without even waiting to sharpen the ax .
I 'm coming . Farewell .
As good as one could wish for . The King has been wounded and is near death . And , thanks to your son 's luck , Prince Harry has been killed . Douglas killed both Lords Blunt . Prince John of Lancaster , Westmoreland , and Stafford fled the battlefield . And your son captured that hulking Sir John Falstaff , Prince Harry 's fattened pig . Oh , there has n't been a battle so well fought or a victory so well won since the days of Julius Caesar ! It brings honor to our times .
Hello , Iago . It 's time for us to stand guard .
Launcelot , what 's going on ?
That sounds like the voice of Friar John . Welcome back from Mantua . What does Romeo say ? Or , if he wrote down his thoughts , give me his letter .
" Les ongles ? " That is " de nails . "
I 'll set her free .
Musicians , come in !
This afternoon , sir ? She 'll be there .
wrong side -- even if the rebellion were more despicable than the word " rebellion " already leads me to believe .
You imply that married men are fools . You 'll get a blow from me for that , I think . Go on with what you were saying -- right this instant .
Where 's the Master , Boatswain ?
All hail , Macbeth ! Hail to you , thane of Cawdor !
Goneril , you are n't worth the dust the wind blows in your face . I do n't trust you . You ca n't trust anyone who abuses her own father , her flesh and blood . A woman who breaks off relations with her bloodline is like a branch that tries to break away from the tree . She will wither and come to a bad end .
First rehearse your song from memory , and make sure each note is pretty . We 'll all join hands and sing , and bless this place with our fairy grace .
I do n't know . I just know I 'm not one .
Come on , Nerissa , I have many things to do that you do n't even know about yet . We 'll see our husbands before they even have a chance to miss us .
Why ?
" With a half-circle cape -- "
But here comes Antony . --Welcome , Mark Antony .
Now , until morning , each fairy should walk through this house . Titania and I will go to the royal marriage bed to bless it , and the children conceived in that bed will always have good luck . Each of the three couples will always be faithful and in love , and their children will have no deformities .
I swear , this town 's plagued by troublesome boys .
It does n't matter how I am : he hurt me , and that 's that . Fool , have you seen Dick the surgeon ?
There 's still the King of France 's farewell ceremony . Let 's put our heads together . If our father continues to use his authority as usual , then his recent abdication of the kingdom will just hurt us .
A snail ?
Do you know who wrote these ?
Then both , or one , or anything you like .
Monday , my lord .
You mean you do n't even want to hear my side ? Of course ! She 's your treasure . She must have a husband and I must dance barefoot on her wedding day . You like her best and so I 'll die an old maid . Do n't talk to me . I 'll just go cry myself sick and think of some way to get back at all of you .
Please do n't make me do that , sir . I have to obey all your orders , but surely I 'm not obligated to reveal my deepest thoughts -- even slaves are n't expected to do that . You want me to say what I 'm thinking ? What if my thoughts are disgusting and wrong ? Even good people think horrible things sometimes . Who is so pure that they never think a bad thought ?
He 's not sick , my lord , but he 's very upset , and his problems are serious . His letter will tell you how he 's doing .
Well , sir , stop your joking there . Are any ships leaving tonight ? Can we go ?
I swear , before I die I 'm going to see you sick with love .
I admit it does n't look that way to me , and the fact that you suspect me shows that you 're smart . But Roderigo , if you 're as courageous and determined as I think you are , then wait just a bit longer . If you 're not having sex with Desdemona tomorrow night , then I suggest you find some way to stab me in the back and kill me .
A trumpet is blowing retreat : we 've won . Come on , brother . Let 's get to high ground and see which of our friends are alive , and which are dead .
What then ?
Do n't get up yet . Let heaven be my witness --I 'm putting my mind , my heart , and my hands in Othello 's control . Let him command me , and I 'll do whatever he asks , no matter how violent .
With all due respect , me understand well .
Sweet Sir Andrew !
Ah , dear , if that is true , let heaven make poisonous hail grow from my heart , and let the first hailstone drop down my throat . As it dissolves , so shall my life . The next hailstone should hit Caesarion , until one by one all my children , and every one of my brave Egyptians , are killed by the dissolving of this pellet storm and lie unburied , covered by gnats and flies .
This is to feel the news , not hear it .
Madam , I think if you love him so much , you are n't using the best way to get him to reciprocate .
Since if the sun breeds maggots on a dead dog , kissing the corpse -- by the way , do you have a daughter ?
What did he do that made him flee this land ?
What ? You 're in a bad mood ? What could you possibly ask for ?
It 's nice you 're offering to sacrifice her behind her back . That wish of yours could start quite an argument back at home .
Did this happen before the King of France returned home ?
Lose nothing ? In fact , you 'd get bigger . Men make women bigger by getting them pregnant .
I 'm serious , I ca n't .
Welcome to Rome .
You bring me happiness and peace , John . But health , unfortunately , has flown from this shrunken body . Now that I 've seen you , I have nothing more to do in this world . Where is Lord Warwick ?
Cesario , go visit that cruel Olivia one more time . Tell her my love is purer than anything else in the whole world , and has nothing to do with her property . The wealth she 's inherited is n't what makes me value her . It 's her rich , jewel-like beauty that attracts me .
Peace to you , my lord of Burgundy . Since you love money and power so much , I wo n't be your wife .
He is like a god and knows the truth . My honor was n't given ; it was only dominated .
What , I 'm a prisoner ? No rescue for me ? My luck has always been bad . Treat me well . There 's a ransom . I need a doctor . My brains are injured .
I have nothing to say to you . My sword will talk for me . You are too evil for words !
Have you come here , my lord , to marry this lady ?
My lord , he just left here . He was happy here , listening to a song .
There 's enough to make us all rich .
Here , Peter Quince .
I will have when you hear the rest of what I have to say . The senate has decided to give mighty Caesar a crown today .
A friend .
Good friends , go in and have some wine with me . And we 'll leave together , like friends .
My God , now the thing is at my elbow , persuading me not to kill the duke .
Yes , I do . Is n't fifty knights enough for you ? Why would you need more than that ? Or even that many . Fifty knights are expensive to maintain , and there 's always a risk they 'll rebel . How could so many people , under two masters , get along under one roof ? It would be hard , almost impossible .
Lady Beatrice , I 'll get you a husband .
It would n't surprise me , my lord . If these asses can speak , a lion should be able to .
Do n't talk anymore , go after her .
Shame on you ! Drawing your sword on a woman ?
I 'll be right there ! But if you do n't have honorable intentions , I beg you --
The gods have ordained it to be like this , sir . You are my lord and master . I must obey .
Please , stand farther away from me .
Of course , sir . There are rulebooks for arguing just as there are rulebooks for manners . Here are the steps . First is " the courteous retort " ; second , " the modest quip " ; third , " the sullen reply " ; fourth , " the valiant retort " ; fifth , " the argumentative countercheck " ; sixth , " the circumstantial lie " ; seventh , " the direct lie . " You can avoid getting to that final stage if you can properly use an " if . " I once heard of an argument that seven judges could n't settle . The two parties met up on their own , and one said , " Well , if you said this - and - that , then I must have said such - and - such , " and they shook hands and parted on good terms . " If " is the only peacemaker . " If " is a very valuable word .
That was brutish of them , to kill so capital a guy . --Are the actors ready ?
I do n't know any kind things you 've done for me , and I do n't recognize your voice or your face . I hate an ungrateful man more than I hate lying , vanity , babbling , drunkenness , or any other vice that we feeble human beings are susceptible to . --
I wish I could see that man someday !
Please stay below deck , sir .
Yes , truly , that news makes me cold .
I do n't care . I 'm being contemptuous and cruel toward you on purpose . A faithful shepherd worships you . Why do n't you pay attention to him ? Why do n't you love him ? He adores you .
Well , I wish you liked me .
escapes your poisoned sword tip , the drink will kill him . But wait , what 's that sound ?
She was filthy ! I barely knew you , Uncle Gratiano . Here 's your niece lying here dead . I killed her with these hands . I know this looks horrible .
I have news from Rome , my good lord .
So get ready to cut off the flesh . Do n't shed any blood , or cut less or more than exactly a pound of flesh . If you take more or less than exactly a pound , even if it 's just the tiniest fraction of an ounce -- if the scale changes by even so much as a hair , you die , and all your property will be confiscated .
No , she was n't , and she did n't know anything about it . She has always been honest and good .
may I die as the wild youth I was before , and never live to show the dubious world the transformation I have been planning . Coming to see you , thinking you were dead -- and being nearly dead myself , just thinking that you were --I spoke to this crown as though it were alive . I scolded it like this : " The worry you 've caused has eaten my father alive . So you , the best piece of gold , are actually the worst piece of gold . Other gold , perhaps worth less , is more precious , since it at least brings us health when mixed in our drinks . But you -- the best , the most honored , the most famous -- have consumed the person wearing you . " And as I accused it , I put it on my head , to fight against it as an enemy who 'd killed my father before my very eyes . It was the fight of a loyal child . But may God keep it from me forever -- making me like the poorest servant bowing down before it in awe and terror -- if it in any way made me happy or arrogant , or if any part of me was the least bit pleased to welcome it and the power it brings .
Keep them off me , Bardolph .
Where are your sister and Hortensio 's wife ?
He once said the devil would get him because of women .
Why do n't you have a seat , your highness ?
This is a pitiful sight ! The count is dead . Juliet is bleeding . Her body is warm , and she seems to have been dead only a short time , even though she has been buried for two days . Go , tell the Prince . Run to the Capulets . Wake up the Montagues . Have some others search .
Show me , or at least prove it beyond the shadow of a doubt . If you ca n't , your life is worthless !
He meant he did nothing right for me -- which is true , unfortunately .
Our king is not like him in that respect : he never killed any of his friends .
Excuse me ?
God give me a good dance partner !
In that case it 's like the words of an unpaid lawyer . You paid me nothing for it . Ca n't you make any use of nothing , uncle ?
The hand of death has taken him .
Why , my boy ?
Then that 's the way it may turn out . Come on , sir , will you come aboard ? I want to drink your health .
While I 'm doing this , I ca n't pause for a moment .
Do n't worry , sir . I 'm at your service .
I could be convinced if I were like you . If I could beg others to change their minds , begging would convince me , too . But I 'm as immovable as the northern star , whose stable and stationary quality has no equal in the sky . The sky shows countless stars . They 're all made of fire , and each one shines . But only one among all of them remains in a fixed position . So it is on earth . The world is full of men , and men are flesh and blood , and they are capable of reason . Yet out of all of them , I know only one who is unassailable , who never moves from his position . To show you that that 's me , let me prove it a little even in this case . I was firm in ordering that Cimber be banished , and I remain firm in that decision .
Being " too ill - tempered " is different from being simply " ill-tempered , " right ? So I suppose that means I can escape God 's punishment , for in the old proverb , it is said that " God gives an ill-tempered cow short horns " so that she ca n't inflict damage on anyone . But it does n't say anything about a cow that is too ill - tempered .
The only thing you can sense are punches -- just like an ass .
He 's a very fancy gentleman . And who 's the girl who has caught his eye ?
Who is this ?
And what do you know , boy ?
May the gods bless Antony today !
Oh , if you 're a virgin , and you have n't given your heart to another man , then I 'll make you the queen of Naples .
It 's not going to speak , so I 'll follow it .
" De foot , " madame , and " de count . "
Then you should know that we take fault with your resigning the supreme seat , the majestic throne , the sceptered office , of your ancestors -- the power and greatness that destiny and your noble birth have handed you -- to the wrong person . You are n't respecting the lineage of your royal family . You 're lost in sleepy thoughts , and we have come to wake you to our country 's needs . This noble island has been compromised . She is scarred by the infamous deeds of King Edward IV . Her royal stock has been corrupted and nearly lost . We want that royalty remembered again . We heartily beg you , in all your goodness , to take upon yourself the responsibility and rule of this land , not merely as a servant , substitute , or other lowly agent of the king , but as the king himself . It is your birthright to be king . It 's for this reason that we are here -- the citizens of England and your devoted friends . We strongly urge you on .
You 've lost your mind to accuse her of cheating . She was utterly true to you !
I wish this wholesome little flower could be kept away from disease . Well , here 's a sixpence for you .
Husband ?
Cassius , stand firm . Popillius Lena was n't talking about our plot -- for , look , he 's smiling , and Caesar 's expression is the same .
We 'll answer .
We 're following you not only because it is our duty , but also because we want to .
Do you think Caesar will cry ?
Benvolio , who started this fight ?
The privilege of never seeing me again . And now I 'm going to leave your despised company . You 'll never see me again , whether or not he 's dead .
Well , the peace you pleaded for so eloquently just now lies in his answer .
You 've got it wrong , old man .
Does anyone have a dagger for me ?
" De nails , de arme , de ilbow . "
Oh , and I 'll bet you 'll also deny you were responsible for Lord Hastings 's recent stay in prison .
Yes , you 'd think so , if you knew why I was sending you .
Come on , you 're answering me foolishly .
Is the soldier staying all night ?
Oh , here comes the storm again . The best thing to do is crawl under his cloak . There 's no other shelter around here . In emergencies you meet the strangest folks . I 'll just stay here till the storm passes .
And did they ask you to tell Beatrice about this , madam ?
Now I 've made up my mind , and with God 's help -- and yours , you nobles who are the mainstay of my power --I 'll force France to fear me , or I 'll break her into pieces , as she 's rightfully mine . Either I 'll sit , ruling with absolute authority over France and all her dukedoms , or I 'll lay these bones in a common grave , with no stone or inscription over them . Either the story of my deeds will be declaimed loudly and without restraint , or else my grave will remain speechless , like a Turkish mute , not honored with even an epitaph etched in wax .
Quiet there ! Listen to the noble Antony .
Get out of here , you little rabbit ! Get out !
Give me access to them , and soon you wo n't have to worry about them anymore .
He rushed away on serious business . It was a huge mistake to let old Gloucester live after we blinded him . Wherever he goes , he inspires compassion and people turn against us . I think Edmund went off to kill him , to put him out of his blind misery . And also to find out the size of the enemy army .
Leave him till tomorrow . I 'll think of some awful punishment for him . Play on , musicians !
Signor Bassanio !
No.
They 're pretty busy in there . You 'd better knock louder .
I 'm sure you can . Tomorrow , Sir Michael , ten thousand men will try their luck . I 'm told that at Shrewsbury , the King -- with a huge and quickly assembled army -- will fight Harry Percy . I 'm afraid , Michael , that without Northumberland , whose army was the largest of all , and without Owen Glendower , who was also being counted on but is absent because his horoscope told him to stay away , I 'm afraid that Percy 's army will be too weak to fight the King right now .
I 'm reminding your grace what you promised me .
Tear him apart , tear him up !
A king on the calmest , stillest night , with everything available for sleep ? Then , you happy commoners , put yourselves to bed . The head that wears the crown sleeps uneasily .
Noble Antony , even illness could n't keep me away .
What is your name ? I know your position .
Good morning , gentlemen .
Who said that I was disdainful , and that I got all my best lines out of a bad joke book ? ! Well , it must have been Signior Benedick .
Amen to that ! We 'll be your witnesses .
Why not ! Is n't every living thing condemning her ? Can she deny the accusations that are proven by her guilty blush ? Die , Hero , do n't open your eyes . If I did n't think you were about to die soon -- if I thought your spirit could bear this shame --I would risk punishment and kill you myself . Am I sorry that I only had one child ? Do I blame Nature for being so thrifty ? Oh , one child is one too many ! Why did I ever have one ? Why did you once seem lovely to me ? Why did n't I just adopt a beggar 's child left at my doorstep , whose shame and dishonor I could have denied , not being its true father ? But you were mine , and I loved and praised you for being mine , and was proud of you for being mine --I loved you so much that I hardly cared about myself .
There comes an old man with his three sons --
I will do so . Mr. Fabian , stay with this gentleman until I come back .
If she lives a long and happy life , then all women may as well turn into monsters .
No slander , Ned , in the world , honest Ned , none . I maligned him only to the wicked , so that the wicked would n't fall in love with him . And by doing that , I 've acted like a good friend and loyal subject , and your father should thank me for it . No slander , Hal , none , Ned . No , truly boys , none .
The earth has bubbles , just like the water , and these creatures must have come from a bubble in the earth . Where did they disappear to ?
" It will be natural for him to agree with you . " Ah , yes , that 's right . If he agrees he 'll say something like this : " Yes , I know the gentleman you 're referring to . I just saw him yesterday , " or " the other day , " or whenever it is , you know , " and there he was gambling , " or " there he was , totally wasted , or fighting with somebody about a tennis match , or going into a house of ill repute " -- that means a whorehouse , you know -- or whatever . Make sure your little lie brings out the truth . We 're doing this wisely and intelligently , indirectly , finding out things by roundabout means . That 's how you 'll find out what my son is up to in Paris . You get my point , do n't you ?
Then surrender , coward , and we 'll put you in a freakshow , just like they do with deformed animals . We 'll put a picture of you on a sign , right above the words " Come see the tyrant ! "
And you agree to marry Phoebe , if she is willing ?
Where 's Scotland ?
Find him and bring him here . Where 's Alexas ?
Oh , spare me !
She loves someone else --Who 's shouting ?
There 's something strange in the air that 's keeping us from getting in .
I also have a few things to say about that , which Hamlet just told me . But let 's get down to business -- even though people are in a frenzy of grief -- to avoid any further plots and mishaps .
Be good enough to take back the same answer I gave before . Tell them to capture me , then sell my bones . Good God ! Why do they mock poor fellows this way ? The man that once sold the skin of a lion while the beast still lived died hunting him . A good many of our bodies , I imagine , will end up in English soil . And on their graves , I trust , the story of this day 's work will be written in brass . And those who leave their valiant bones in France , dying like men though buried in your dunghills -- they 'll be remembered , too . The sun will rise on them here and draw their glory up to heaven , leaving their mortal remains to choke your land : the smell of rotting flesh will breed a plague in France .
Hound or spaniel , bitch or dog , Whether your tail is short or curly -- Tom will make you cry and wail . With one little toss of his head , He can scare you off for good . Whether your mouth is black or white , Do-dee , dee-dee da . Stop ! Run off , go visit fairs and festivals ! Poor Tom , your cup is empty .
Captain Fluellen !
Oh , that 's a joke made out of leather that spreads itself thin , from the width of an inch to as fat as a yard .
In the meantime I 'll tell you all , as honestly as I confess my sins to God , how I wooed this beautiful lady , and how she came to love me .
What is it , Biondello ?
You , I think , would best know what he 's thinking .
It shows how sincerely I love him --
I 'm telling you , yes . So finish that grave right away . The coroner examined her case and says it should be a Christian funeral .
You abused me to my face .
My lord is your lord .
My God ! He 's just as good as those silly old professional actors !
Here comes Biondello . Where have you been , boy ?
I know I 'm being foolish , but I have the kind of vague misgiving women often get .
How far is it supposed to be to Forres ? What are these creatures ? They 're so withered - looking and crazily dressed . They do n't look like they belong on this planet , but I see them standing here on Earth . Are you alive ? Can you answer questions ? You seem to understand me , because each of you has put a gruesome finger to her skinny lips . You look like women , but your beards keep me from believing that you really are .
Oh , Antony . I drove you to this . But we have to get rid of a disease if it threatens our body . Either I had to ruin you , or you would have ruined me . There was n't enough room in the world for both of us . Even so , let me mourn , with tears that heal like a bloodletting , that you -- my brother , my greatest competitor , my partner in rule , my friend and companion on the battlefield , the very arm of my body , and the heart in which mine own heart 's thoughts lived -- that our fates could not be reconciled , which caused us to divide ourselves from one another . Let me tell you , friends --
I 'll be at your service .
Will they see us ?
None , my lord .
Then turn your noble face away from me , that face that the whole world adores .
Oh Setebos , these are handsome spirits ! How wonderful my master is ! I 'm afraid he 'll punish me .
Tonight he boarded a treasure ship . If he can keep it , he 'll be set forever .
" I am the scale , the basis of all harmony . A re , Im here to argue for Hortensio 's love ; B mi , Bianca , take him for your husband , C fa ut , he loves you with all affection ; D sol re , I have one clef but only two notes ; E la mi , have pity on me , or I 'll die . " You call this a scale ? I do n't like it . I do n't go in for these new-fangled methods . I like doing things the old-fashioned way .
Has there ever been a time --I 'd really like to know -- when I 've definitely said something was true , and it turned out not to be true ?
Right away , right away . Come , let 's go . The strangers are all gone .
Nym , what you say is true . His heart is broken and corroborate .
I am at your service . Just tell me what you want me to do , and however hard it is , you 'll see that I 'm eager to do it .
I 'll be the judge of that !
Come here , boy . If you ever fall in love and feel the bittersweet pain it brings , think of me . Because the way I am now , moody and unable to focus on anything except the face of the woman I love , is exactly how all true lovers are . What do you think of this song ?
Beat the drum .
Yes , as kind as snow to a harvest . Come on , you 're fooling yourself . It 's Richard who sent us here to slaughter you .
Oh , God ! Dear God in heaven !
Oh , what a sad sight !
Where ?
Yeah , right -- you sent me to get whipped . You sent me to the port to find a ship .
This is as rude as it is strange . Please , do me this one favor : find out what I 've done to offend this knight . It must be something I did accidentally .
in praising Henry Percy . Except for his current endeavor , I do n't think there 's a man alive who is braver , more heroic , more daring , or more bold . As for me , I 'm ashamed to admit that I 've shirked my responsibilities . I hear that he agrees with me on that point . And yet -- and I say this in front of my father -- in order to avoid casualties on both sides , I want to challenge him in hand-to-hand combat . And I 'm content to admit that , based on his good name and reputation , he 's the favorite to win .
I will , sir .
Jessica !
So why did you laugh when I said that men do n't interest me ?
Oh , but there 's one more thing to tell you .
I have n't even heard a mouse squeak .
I have to leave right away .
Oh , dear God , please help him !
But have you ever gone in my brother - in - law 's bed and had sex with her ?
It 's a very sad day .
Did he treat you well when you saw him ?
I 'm yours forever .
Whoever tricked your daughter and stole her from you will pay for it . And you yourself will determine the sentence as you see fit , and impose the death penalty if you choose to , even if the criminal were my own son .
What a farce !
Look , look how it 's sneaking away ! My father , dressed just like he was when he was alive ! Look , he 's going out the door right now !
Oh , my !
He has an uncle here in Messina who will be glad to hear this news .
The crown was offered to him three times ?
Casca , be quick , because we 're worried we might be stopped . Brutus , what will we do ? If our secret 's known , either Caesar or I will die , for I 'll kill myself .
Madam , I 'd better leave now .
Then there 's still a chance . Come and get it ! But you 'll have to catch me ! Catch me if you can ! Sa , sa , sa , sa .
Enjoy your frankness ; it suits you . I invite you all aboard my ship . After you , my lords ?
He 's given me his horse to try to avoid the fight --I 've persuaded him that the young man is a fighting machine .
Not very well , but I 've met him several times . He 's bought the cottage and the grounds that the old peasant used to own .
He plans to leave tomorrow .
I ca n't stand her . Please , my lord , do n't be friendly with her .
You there !
Please cheer up , sir . Like all of us , you have a good reason to be happy . The fact that we 're alive outweighs our losses . Many people every day feel the sadness we feel now . Every day some sailor 's wife , a ship 's crew , the merchant who hired the ship all experience the same loss we 've undergone . But the miracle -- the fact that we were saved -- only happens to a few people out of millions . So remember that , and take comfort in it , to counterbalance our sadness .
Why are you calling me " love " ? Call my sister that .
Where is my mother ? Why , she 's inside . Where else would she be ? Your answer is so strange ! " Your love says , like an honorable gentleman , ' Where is your mother ? ' "
I mean , with my head in your lap ?
Do n't provoke me any further or I 'll forget to restrain myself . If you care about your health , you wo n't push me any further .
I 've told you what I intend to do , and I 've sworn by the holy Sabbath to seek the penalty that is due according to our contract . If you refuse to allow me to do so , your city 's charter and its freedom are endangered . You 're going to ask me why I 'd rather have a pound of decaying flesh than three thousand ducats . I wo n't answer that . Let 's just say it 's because I feel like it . Is that enough of an answer ? What if I had a rat in my house , and I felt like paying ten thousand ducats to have it exterminated ? Do you have your answer yet ?
Would raise babies and clip coupons .
I 'll tell him all of this , dear lady . Be at ease . I know he 's sorry for your situation , especially since he caused it .
Well , we 'll stop , then .
Those who have known how bad things are here on earth . I have walked around the streets , exposing myself to the perilous night , unbuttoned like this , as you see , Casca , baring my chest to the thunderbolt . When the forked blue lightning seemed to break open the sky , I put myself right where I thought it would hit .
I wish your loyalty were as foolish . The wisdom of your loyalty , fair Bianca , has cost me a hundred crowns since dinner .
Go ahead , do your worst . Killing me wo n't send you to heaven . You were n't good enough for her .
Soldier , why are you wearing that glove in your cap ?
Thisbe is the lady Pyramus is in love with .
Why should n't he benefit at least a little ? Why should n't we all benefit , who suffered in these recent battles , and who have allowed our honor to be damaged by the terrible things happening now ?
Good Prince , you have taught me how to accept things nobly . There , Leonato , take your daughter back . Do n't insult a friend by giving him a beautiful orange that rots inside . She only appears honorable from the outside . Look , how she blushes like a virgin ! Oh , sin can disguise itself so artfully ! Does n't that rising blush suggest that she is virtuous and innocent ? All of you who are looking at her , would n't you swear that she 's a virgin , judging by these outward shows ? But she is no virgin . She has been in a man 's bed . She blushes from guilt , not modesty .
Richard .
The only thing that I 've been entrusted with was getting you from the market and bringing you to your house , the Phoenix , for lunch . My mistress and her sister are waiting for you .
If you lie , boy , we 'll have you whipped .
As I remember , Henry the Sixth prophesied that Richmond would be king when Richmond was only a foolish little boy . A king , perhaps --
Very fine . I 'll have you perform the rest of it soon . --My lord , will you make sure the actors are made comfortable ? Make sure you 're good to them , since what they say about us later will go down in history . It 'd be better to have a bad epitaph on our graves than to have their ill will while we 're alive .
Do that . I 'll write a letter challenging him to a duel on your behalf . Or I 'll deliver your insults to his face .
This is only a figment of your imagination . Madness is good at creating hallucinations .
I was advised that , since I was working for the army at the time , I should n't go .
Well , I think it 's good to be serious and keep quiet .
They made him drink the leftover wine usually given to the poor .
You skeleton , you !
And his opponent , the young messenger , does n't look like he 'd be very aggressive in a fight .
Oh , madam , my old heart is broken , broken .
I ca n't go after her when she 's in a rage like this . So I 'll stay here for a while . Sadness gets worse when you have n't had enough sleep . I 'll try to sleep a little here .
It was . What 's making you so sad and your hours so long ?
Father , what 's the news ? What punishment did the Prince announce ? What suffering lies in store for me that I do n't know about yet ?
He certainly flattered them both with extravagant compliments .
I 'm coming , I 'm coming ! Please , do n't forget to leave me a tip .
And he 'll add another knock across . With all these crosses , I 'll have a holy head .
Did n't you hear her , guys ? Get the lady out of here .
And when has he ever been known to wash his face ?
Octavius , lead your forces slowly out to the left side of the level field .
Madam , keep up hope . He seems cheerful .
This is a lot of knocking ! Come to think of it , if a man were in charge of opening the gates of hell to let people in , he would have to turn the key a lot .
What hell , to have your love life determined by someone else !
Come , Montague . You 're up early to see your son down early .
That with a series of legal writs , Octavius , Antony , and Lepidus have put a hundred senators to death .
What 's up , Catesby , what does your master say ?
You probably killed a lot of his men ?
Laertes , did you love your father ? Or is your grief just an illusion -- a mere painting of sorrow ?
Mine too . --Are you listening , monster ? If I decide to get angry at you , just watch out --
Padua contains nothing that is n't pleasant .
Where 's the list ? Where 's the list ? Where 's the list ? Let 's see , let 's see , let 's see . Right , right . Yes , sir : Ralph Mouldy ! Let them come when I call . Let them do that , let them do that . Let 's see . Where 's Mouldy ?
That 's exactly the number we thought they had . Let 's march ahead and engage them in battle .
Sometimes we do n't know what 's best for us and ask for things that may harm us . In that case , the wise gods deny our prayers for our own good .
You should mock me after you 've beaten me , not before . Come on .
Enough , you owls ! Do you have nothing but songs of death ? Take that until you bring me better news .
Farewell , good neighbor .
Very well . All his worries are ended now .
Be brave like the lion and proud . Do n't even worry about who hates you , who resents you , and who conspires against you . Macbeth will never be defeated until Birnam Wood marches to fight you at Dunsinane Hill .
I 'd say the same thing , but I 'm afraid I 'd be faced out of my way . But I do wish it were morning , for I long to be mixing it up with the English .
You kiss like you 've studied how .
I almost recognize that voice . It 's --But he 's drowned , and these guys are devils . Oh , God help me !
Go away ! The devil 's after me ! The cold wind blows through the hawthorn trees . Ha ! Get into your cold beds and warm yourselves up .
Come , come , hurry up . It 's pointless to talk now .
Here comes your nephew .
Very well , thank you . Well , well , well .
If I were my father , cousin , would I do this ?
Now that 's patience ! No wonder she 's waiting to get married . It 's easy to preach meekness when you have no reason to act otherwise . When we 're faced with a wretched person , bruised and crying with hardship , we try to get them to shush up . And yet , if we were suffering the same kind of pain , we 'd complain just as much -- if not more ! So you , who have no husband causing you problems , want to comfort me by preaching the virtue of feeble patience . But if you live to see yourself similarly denied your rights , this foolish patience will abandon you .
He 's late .
Follow me , then .
You and I are too wise to woo each other peacefully .
Ah , my good old friends ! How are you , Guildenstern ? And Rosencrantz ! Boys , how are you both doing ?
And he 'll do that , because he 's a God-fearing man , even though his joking makes it seem otherwise . Well , I 'm sorry for your niece . Should we go find Benedick and tell him about Beatrice 's love ?
I swear , I 'm telling you what I honestly think .
I was so angry , looking at him all shiny and sweet - smelling , and speaking like a squeamish woman about guns and battle drums and wounds --God almighty ! -- and telling me the best thing for an injury is parmaceti , and that it was a shame that the blameless earth had to be dug up to find saltpeter for the gunpowder , when so many good , brave men had been cowardly destroyed by guns , and that if it had n't been for those disgusting guns , he would have been a soldier himself . All this trivial , incoherent talk I answered offhandedly , as I 've already told you . So I beg you : please do n't take his word as evidence that there 's anything wrong between you and me , your Majesty .
It has been done already , and the messenger is on his way . I answered that Lepidus had become too brutal and abused his position . For this he deserved to be deposed . As for what I seized in the wars , I granted that Antony should have a share . But I also demanded my share of his acquisitions in Armenia and the other conquered kingdoms .
What support did I have besides my two sons ? And now they 're both gone .
I will , my lord . There are also two gentlemen who , in this robbery , lost three hundred marks .
It looks great . It hangs like an old worn-out mop . Some woman should give you syphilis so you go bald .
Allow me to fill in the gaps for those of you who have not read this story . As for those who have , I beg you to excuse the gaps in time , and the many people and things that cannot be represented here in all their magnitude and proper form . Let 's bring the king now to Calais . Imagine him there and , having seen him there , haul him back across the sea on the wings of your imagination . There 's the coast of England : see how the sea seems to be fenced in by the men and wives and boys who line the shore , their shouts and wild applause drowning out the deep roar of the surf . As the king 's ship draws near , the very ocean is like a man running before the king , preparing his way . Let 's have him land and solemnly proceed to London . Thoughts work so quickly that even now you can imagine him on Blackheath , where his lords suggest that he should carry his battle-scarred sword and helmet on a procession through the city . He refuses , as he is free of vanity and self-serving pride and ascribes all the glory and responsibility for victory to God . Now in the factory of thought , create the image of all London pouring forth into the streets . Picture the mayor and all his brother citizens dressed in their best as they go forth like senators of ancient Rome to welcome home their conquering Caesar . Imagine if our own queen 's general returned from Ireland , having stamped out the rebellion there , as we hope he does very soon , how many people would leave the city to come welcome him . Even more people than that welcomed Harry home ,
I wo n't see him . Everyone come with me .
The more I suffer , the more spiteful he becomes . Did he marry me just to starve me ? Beggars at my father 's door are given money as soon as they ask for it . And if they do n't find charity there , they find it someplace else . But I , who have never known how to beg and never had to beg , am starved for food , dizzy with lack of sleep , kept awake with curses and fed with brawling . And what irks me more than all these things put together is that he does it under the pretense of love -- as though for me to eat or sleep would bring on fatal illness or sudden death . Please , go and get me something to eat . I do n't care what so long as it 's nutritious .
Spit on the tuning - peg , man , and try again .
What , there 's going to be a masquerade ? Listen to me , Jessica , lock my doors up , and when you hear the drum and the nasty squealing of the flute , do n't climb up to the windows . Do n't stick your head out into the public street to stare at the Christian fools with painted faces . Block up my house 's ears --I mean the windows . Do n't let the noise of shallow fools enter my serious house . I swear , I 'm in no mood to go out to dinner tonight , but I 'll go anyway . --Launcelot , go tell them I 'll come .
If he did that , it would be a charitable deed to hang him . She 's an excellent , sweet woman , and there 's no doubt that she is virtuous .
Well said ! A healthy heart is worth its weight in gold . Look , here comes Sir John .
And that 's true too .
Barnardo 's taken my place . Good night .
He must be very near by now . When I left him , he was less than nine miles from here .
What 's that noise ?
Sirrah , Falstaff and the rest of the thieves are here . Are we ready for a laugh ?
Last night , I hear , they stayed in Stony Stratford . Tonight they will rest in Northhampton . They 'll be here tomorrow or the next day .
I can . Or at least I can describe the rumors . As you know , our late king , whom we just now saw as a ghost , was the great rival of Fortinbras , king of Norway . Fortinbras dared him to battle . In that fight , our courageous Hamlet killed old King Fortinbras , who --on the basis of a valid legal document -- surrendered all his territories , along with his life , to his conqueror . If our king had lost , he would have had to do the same . But now old Fortinbras 's young son , also called Fortinbras -- he is bold , but unproven -- has gathered a bunch of thugs from the lawless outskirts of the country . For some food , they 're eager to take on the tough enterprise of securing the lands the elder Fortinbras lost .
I do n't want to be cured , boy .
Well , until that time , do n't come near me . And when that time comes , then you can mock me , but please do n't pity me , because I wo n't pity you .
No , Octavius Caesar , we 'll respond to their charge . Go forward . The generals want to speak with us .
Yes .
The pink flower .
Being alone has helped me better understand my life . It 's pathetic to be Caesar . He ca n't be Fortune ; he 's only Fortune 's errand boy . It would be a great deed to commit suicide -- that act which ends all other things , which makes all accidents and changes stop . Which causes you to sleep , and takes you away from earthly concerns .
Do n't talk to me . I 'm going to cry .
Look : Benedick is so pale -- are you sick , or angry ?
If there 's any reason we should n't get married , I urge you to tell me .
Yes I did , and look how good I look in my new role -- much better than before . My brother 's servants used to be my equals . Now they work for me .
What 's the matter ?
Good night , Lord Brutus .
He 's still sleeping , ma'am .
My lord , I informed them as much .
Thirty thousand .
You agreed to send me troops and weapons when I needed them . You refused me both .
What 's going on ? What have you heard from her ?
All right , I 'll lend it to you , even if I have to pawn my clothes . I hope you 'll have dinner here tonight . You 'll pay me the full amount then ?
Was n't he here ?
Then keep your vow , fellow , when you meet the man .
Lord Mayor --
Follow her . She 's desperate . Make sure she does n't do anything stupid .
No , Kate ? I will tell you in French , which I am sure will hang as heavily on my tongue as a newly married wife around her husband 's neck , impossible to shake off . I , when , on the possession of France , and when you have the possession of me -- let me see , what then ? help me , Saint Denis ! -- then yours is France and you are mine . It would be as easy for me to reconquer the kingdom , Kate , as it would be for me to speak that much French again . I 'll never move you in French , except to laugh at me .
That was excellent , really excellent .
Good Catesby , do your work well .
There 's nothing else . Good night . We 'll rise and leave early tomorrow .
There it is .
in the world has seen four swashbucklers like us . And let me tell you this : we knew where to find the highest-quality whores , and the best of them were at our beck and call . At that time , Jack Falstaff , now Sir John , was just a boy . He worked as a page for Thomas Mowbray , the Duke of Norfolk .
And maybe a third ? You know , there 's a game called " third time 's the charm , " which is fun to play , and they always say that three 's a magic number . The three - beat rhythm is a good for dancing , and the church bells chime -- one , two , three .
I 'm amazed that you -- being such a moody man yourself -- are moralizing about my deadly condition . I ca n't hide what I am . I 'll be sad when I have reason to be sad and wo n't smile at anybody 's jokes . I 'll eat when I 'm hungry and wo n't wait until it 's convenient . I 'll sleep when I 'm tired and wo n't rouse myself for anything . I 'll laugh when I 'm happy and wo n't flatter and fawn over anyone .
No , by God , you know perfectly well you arrived on earth to make it my hell . Your birth was incredibly painful ; you were a fussy and difficult baby ; as a schoolboy , you were frightening , wild , furious , and caused me despair ; as a young man , you were daring , bold , and enterprising , and in your maturity , you have been haughty , bloody , and treacherous -- both more mild and more harmful than before . So , what hour of comfort have I ever had in your company ? Name one .
Now I must go to the tomb alone . Within three hours Juliet will wake up . She 'll be very angry with me that Romeo does n't know what happened . But I 'll write again to Mantua , and I 'll keep her in my cell until Romeo comes . That poor living corpse . She 's shut inside a dead man 's tomb !
BASSANIO Please , Leonardo , think about this . These things have been bought and are ready . Hurry back here . I 'm having dinner tonight with someone I greatly respect . Go now .
What 's going on , Orlando ? Where have you been all this time ? And you call yourself a lover ? If you ever insult me like this again , do n't bother coming around here again .
Well , if it was n't her , I do n't know .
Be patient until I finish . Romans , countrymen , and friends ! Listen to my reasons and be silent so you can hear . Believe me on my honor and keep my honor in mind , so you may believe me . Be wise when you criticize me and keep your minds alert so you can judge me fairly . If there 's anyone in this assembly , any dear friend of Caesar 's , I say to him that my love for Caesar was no less than his . If , then , that friend demands to know why I rose up against Caesar , this is my answer : it 's not that I loved Caesar less , but that I loved Rome more .
Ah , give me some mandragora to drink .
You opposed my taking part in the war . You said it was n't proper .
once , and that was in the arena at the jousting tournament ; John of Gaunt cut Shallow 's head with his sword . I saw it all , and I told John of Gaunt that he had beaten his own name , since Shallow was such a gaunt man back then . You could fit him and all his clothes into the skin an eel sheds . An instrument case was as huge as a mansion to him , as big as a courtroom . Now he has land and livestock . Well , I 'll be his friend if I come back . He wo n't like it , but I 'll turn him into an unending source of wealth for myself . If small fish can be bait for big fish , I see no reason why I ca n't snap my jaws at Shallow . Time will tell , and that 's all I have to say about that .
Stop , Demetrius ! Stop , even if only to kill me .
Is love really tender ? I think it 's too rough , too rude , too rowdy , and it pricks like a thorn .
I promise you , that man is n't here , since he 's currently running an errand for me . Sheriff , I give you my word that by lunchtime tomorrow I 'll send him to you , or anyone else you need to see . He 'll answer to anything he may be accused of . So please , I 'd like you to leave this tavern .
Under the circumstance , to save your life , here 's what I 'm willing to do -- and it 's actually not an unlucky thing that you happen to look like Sir Vincentio . We 'll pass you off as him -- you can assume his name and reputation and stay in my house . You just have to act your part , you understand ? You 'll stay here in the city until you 've taken care of your business . If this is kindness , you 're welcome to it .
Do n't think I 'm in love with him just because I 'm asking about him . He 's an irritable boy , though he speaks well . But what do I care about words ? And yet , words are a good thing when the man speaking them is pleasant to listen to . He 's good - looking , but not too good - looking . He 's awfully proud , but his pride suits him . He 'll grow up to be a proper man . The best thing about him is his complexion : as fast as he offends me with words , his pretty face heals the wound . He 's not very tall , but he 's tall enough for his age . His legs are n't great , but they 're alright . His lips were nice and red , a little more lively and passionate than the red that was in his cheeks -- one was pure red and the other more pink . There are women out there , Silvius , who would have nearly fallen in love with him after inspecting him as closely as I have . But I do n't love him or hate him -- though I suppose I have more reason to hate him than love him . What right did he have to scold me like that ? He said my eyes and my hair were black and , now that I think of it , he scorned me . I 'm surprised I did n't bite back . But no matter --I 'll get back at him soon enough . I 'll write him a taunting letter , and you can deliver it . Will you do that for me , Silvius ?
Yes , very well , sir .
That ? What ?
Whom did he leave in charge here ?
Flute , you 'll be playing the role of Thisbe .
Le col , " de nick " ; le menton , " de sin . "
Sister , I have a lot to say about things that concern us both . I think that our father will leave here tonight .
You ca n't mean it , Tranio ! Have you both really given me up ?
This is old Ninny 's tomb . But where is my love ?
Where should we meet ?
Wait , Petruchio , I should go with you . My own " wealth " is in Baptista 's keeping . His youngest daughter , the beautiful Bianca , is the jewel of my life , and he keeps her hidden away from me and other rivals for her hand . Because he finds it so incredible -- owing to those character deficiencies I mentioned before -- that any man will ever come courting Katherina , Baptista has therefore issued this edict : that none shall be permitted to court Bianca until that Katherine the shrew finds a husband .
Heaven help you for saying that , boy ! But what will you do without a father ?
Dolabella , go see Antony . Tell him to surrender . His position is hopeless . This delay makes him look ridiculous .
" Seem , " mother ? No , it is . I do n't know what you mean by " seem . " Neither my black clothes , my dear mother , nor my heavy sighs , nor my weeping , nor my downcast eyes , nor any other display of grief can show what I really feel . It 's true that all these things " seem " like grief , since a person could use them to fake grief if he wanted to . But I 've got more real grief inside me that you could ever see on the surface . These clothes are just a hint of it .
Come break this up , Benvolio . I 'm losing this duel of wits .
Help ! Murder , murder !
Relent , and save your souls . If either of you were a prince 's son , and you were imprisoned as I am now , and two murderers like yourselves came to you -- would n't you beg for your life ? Yes , you would beg , if you were in my position .
Down to the last detail . I boarded the king 's ship , and in every corner of it , from the deck to the cabins , I made everyone astonished and terrified . Sometimes I appeared in many places at once . On the top sail and main mast I flamed in different spots , then I came together into a single flame . I flashed about faster than lightning . The fire and deafening cracks seemed to overwhelm even the god of the sea himself , making him tremble underwater .
And that would be -- ?
Tell her to put her mind at rest . She 'll find out soon enough by one of our messengers how respectfully and kindly we plan to treat her . I cannot be taught how to be cruel .
What are you doing , sir ? You 're making them uncomfortable . Look -- they 're crying . And I 'm just foolish enough to tear up myself . It 's embarrassing . Do n't turn us into women .
He cut my head and gave Sir Toby a bloody head , too . For the love of God , help us ! I 'd give forty pounds to be safe at home right now .
My lord , I do n't know what 's going on , but it seems to me that your highness is n't being treated as politely as before . The servants , the duke , and your daughter all seem to be treating you less kindly .
I swear , this fool has an excellent singing voice . I 'd give forty shillings to have his nice legs and his beautiful voice . Fool , you were very funny last night talking that astrological nonsense about Pigrogromitus and the Vapians passing the equinox of Queubus . Very amusing . I sent you some money to spend on your girlfriend . Did you get it ?
Corporal Nym , if you want to be friends , be friends . If not , then you can be my enemy , too . Come on , put it away .
Shame of what , lady ? Sex and marriage are honorable things -- even for a beggar , right ? And is n't your husband an honorable man ? You 're so prudish you 'd probably like me to say , " I beg your pardon , your husband " -- as if husband were a dirty word ! So long as suspicious minds are n't misinterpreting my honest words , I 'll offend no one . What 's wrong with admitting your husband 's going to lie on you ? Nothing , as long as it 's the right husband with the right wife . That 's right and proper -- anything else is frivolous and immoral . Ask Beatrice . Here she comes .
A man no mightier than you or I in ability , yet grown as huge and frightening as tonight 's strange happenings .
You wo n't ?
God have mercy on us ! --The ship 's breaking up ! --Goodbye , wife and kids ! --Goodbye , brother ! --We 're breaking up , we 're breaking up !
Christ , it 's a disaster . The work is stopped , the trumpet has sounded the retreat . I swear by this hand and my father 's soul , the whole thing is a disaster . It 's all stopped . I could have blown up the town in an hour . Oh , it 's a disaster , a disaster , by this hand , it 's a disaster .
Oh , general , please , no more of that !
Come , let 's go and change our clothes . Then we 'll visit Leonato 's .
I do n't know that , once he knows what I know .
So the messenger is short of breath , like a hoarse raven , as he announces Duncan 's entrance into my fortress , where he will die . Come , you spirits that asist murderous thoughts , make me less like a woman and more like a man , and fill me from head to toe with deadly cruelty ! Thicken my blood and clog up my veins so I wo n't feel remorse , so that no human compassion can stop my evil plan or prevent me from accomplishing it ! Come to my female breast and turn my mother 's milk into poisonous acid , you murdering demons , wherever you hide , invisible and waiting to do evil ! Come , thick night , and cover the world in the darkest smoke of hell , so that my sharp knife ca n't see the wound it cuts open , and so heaven ca n't peep through the darkness and cry , " No ! Stop ! "
Oh Lord ! My lord , good Captain --
Quiet ! Keep listening .
Beg to be allowed to hang yourself ! But if you 've handed over all your wealth to the state , you do n't even have enough money left to buy a rope . So you 'll be hanged at the state 's expense .
Let me see your eyes . Look at my face .
If you can think of any crime you have n't confessed , then pray for forgiveness right away .
What would you like , sir ?
Should be ? Maybe you should be the subject of some buzz !
Antonio will guarantee it , hmmm .
If you marry , I 'll give you this curse as your wedding present -- be as clean as ice , as pure as the driven snow , and you 'll still get a bad reputation . Get yourself to a convent , at once . Good - bye . Or if you have to get married , marry a fool , since wise men know far too well that you 'll cheat on them . Good - bye .
Mark Antony , take Caesar 's body . You will not blame us in your funeral speech , but will say all the good you want to about Caesar and that you do it by our permission . Otherwise , you 'll have no role at all in his funeral . And you 'll speak on the same platform as I do , after I 'm done .
Who shall I say you are ?
Then let the rain come down .
Past noon .
Stay away from the quicksand of drink , Lepidus : you 're sinking .
Do n't think about it so much .
Oh , in the duke of Gloucester 's wallet .
Hotspur 's death , suddenly started moving fast -- faster than arrows flying toward a target -- but they flew toward safety , not toward the battle . Soon , Worcester , that furious Scotsman , was captured . The warlike Douglas , who killed three enemies disguised as King Henry , began to lose courage : he ran away as well , lending his authority to the shameful retreat . But running in fear , he stumbled and was captured . The bottom line is that King Henry has won . He 's sent a speedy force after you , sir , led by young John of Lancaster and Westmoreland . That is the whole story .
If what you have to say is anything like what you used to say , it 'll be as repulsive to my ears as wild screams after beautiful music .
Good idea . But he 's sleeping .
Hey !
Halt ! Pass the order along .
Yes , he did .
Corporal Nym , be a man and put away your sword .
Oh Lord , sir ! I 'm a sick man .
Forget about your heart and get busy . --Signior Baptista , shall I lead the way ? You 'll be welcome , though dinner will probably be only one course . We 'll make it up to you in Pisa .
Dope , moron , eunuch , fool , idiot , clown ! Either get away from the door or sit yourself down there ! What , are you trying to summon women with your spells -- is that why you 're calling out so many names ? Is n't one enough for you ? Get away with you !
Do n't bring me any more reports . I do n't care if all the thanes desert me . Until Birnam Wood gets up and moves to Dunsinane , I wo n't be affected by fear . What 's the boy Malcolm ? Was n't he born from a woman ? The spirits that know the future have told me this : " Do n't be afraid , Macbeth . No man born from a woman will ever defeat you . " So get out of here , disloyal thanes , and join the weak and decadent English ! My mind and courage will never falter with doubt or shake with fear .
Taurus !
No , no , he 's dead .
Ah , Aunt , you did n't weep at our father 's death . How can we help you by crying for your sorrow ?
Then it 's hers . And if it 's hers , I guess she can give it to any man she wants .
My lord , please try to stick to the subject at hand .
Yes , I do , lady . If it pleases Caesar to be so good to himself as to hear me , I 'll try to get him to do what 's good for him .
How very English of her . Kate , my wooing is fit for your understanding : I am glad your English is n't better . If it were , you would find me such an ordinary king that you would think I 'd sold my farm to buy my crown . I do n't know any fancy ways of talking about love , only to say right out , " I love you . " If you press me any further than with the question , " Do you really ? " my love scene is over . So give me your answer , and we 'll shake on it . Deal ?
Sir !
It 's Casca --I know your voice .
It 's true , they 're inconsistent . My letters say there are a hundred and seven ships .
I can be discreet in honorable matters , ride a horse , run , tell a good story badly , and deliver a plain message bluntly . I 'm good at everything that ordinary men can do . The best thing about me is that I 'm hardworking .
Oh , that 's pathetic ! Do n't listen to him , Emilia , even though he 's your husband . What do you think about him , Cassio ? Is n't he a horrible man ?
Which irritaties me . Give me a summary .
I 'll show you every inch of the island , and I 'll kiss your feet . I beg you , please be my god .
You have always been known as a merciful man , partner .
Well , the difference of a horse !
Your speech is more refined than I would expect in such a remote place as this .
Is that my reward -- to be called " old dog ? " Well , it 's true , I 've served this family so long I 've gotten old and toothless , like a dog . God bless my old master . He would never have spoken to me like this .
Well , that 's just greedy . Silvius , I used to hate you . I still do n't love you , but since you 're well-spoken when it comes to love , I 'll keep you around and make use of you . But do n't expect any more than that .
Let 's go . There 's no point in looking for him if he does n't want to be found .
That 's from lack of sleep . It 'll go away . Let me wrap up your head , and it will feel okay in less than an hour .
Our Queen is dead too .
Macbeth has n't attacked them ?
Let 's hear it .
I 'm your father , Hamlet -- your father who loves you .
Let me choose now . I feel tortured by all this talking .
Hello , Cassio . How are you ?
Come on , let 's all go inside .
My lord , I have some letters for you .
You 're risking your reputation by leaving the city and stalking someone who does n't love you . Standing around alone in a deserted area in the middle of the night is n't the best way to protect your virginity .
Well , I 'm nearly finished . But just one last thing --
Me , ma'am ?
Here is the cap your Worship ordered .
A case study in madness , to connect memory and thought .
Well , I say we wo n't agree to any conference .
Nothing , my lord .
He locks himself up alone in his bedroom , shuts his windows to keep out the beautiful daylight , and makes himself an artificial night . This mood of his is going to bring bad news , unless someone smart can fix what 's bothering him .
Please be quiet . My soul is full of sorrow .
Now you stop too , Nurse , please .
It 's wrong for the duke to do this . The king will be angry with him .
I hope we can count on him , but I still fear him , and my hunches are usually accurate .
She 's dead , my Queen .
I respect the soul very much , so I disagree with his belief .
Here 's where they 'll end up , on the floor . Some of them are leaning already . It wo n't take much for them to fall over .
Good duke , come receive your daughter . Hymen brought her from heaven Yes , brought her here .
I hope you 're lucky enough to hear the true story by sticking around . Come , madam , let 's go .
Yes , they are , my lord -- little boys are carrying the whole theater on their backs , like Hercules carried the world .
Of course I will .
No , my dear ... Eros , come on , bring my armor , Eros .
Yes , my lord . Listen to how quiet the evening is , as if it 's purposefully setting the stage for a song .
What ? You 're like a candle , half burned out .
Listen to me a moment . I 've only remained silent this whole time because I 've been watching Hero . I 've seen her begin to blush a thousand times , only to watch those blushes disappear a thousand times and an innocent paleness take over her face . And in her eyes I see a fire that would seem to burn away the lies the princes have told about her chastity . Call me a fool , do n't trust my observations -- the truth of which is backed up by all my years of experience --do n't trust my age , my reputation , my position , and my holiness .
My Lord Constable , are those stars or suns I saw on the armor in your tent tonight ?
Not even to get her fan , or her gloves , or her mask , or anything ?
What do you need me to do ?
What I want is for you to tell me which of your suitors you like best . And do n't lie .
Go drop dead in your own heir-apparent pants . If I 'm arrested , I 'll rat you out , too . If I do n't get them singing dirty songs in the street about you all , let me be poisoned to death with booze . I hate it when a practical joke gets so out of hand -- and with me out of a horse , too !
Your father 's sickness is a serious injury to us .
How dare you try to be my friend when you refuse to fight my enemy .
If your name 's Luce , then I say : Luce , good answer !
What a horrible slut !
Please stop , sir .
That 's the point I 'm trying to make . If I can be frank with you , she veered away from her own nature in turning down all those young men from her own country , with her skin color , with her status -- everything her nature would have drawn her to --Ugh ! You can almost smell the dark and ugly desires inside her , the unnatural thoughts --But --I 'm sorry --I did n't mean to refer to her specifically just now . I only worry that she might snap back to her natural taste in men one day , and compare you unfavorably to other Italians .
Oh Westmoreland ; you 're like a summer bird , which sings the dawn in as winter ends .
Really ? Is that a lot of moys ? Come over here , boy and ask this slave in French what his name is .
You will pretend to be a schoolmaster and offer to teach the girl . Is that your plan ?
Well , that 's really my job .
Whom you swore you would protect and defend .
Nurse , will you come with me to my closet and help me pick out the clothes and the jewelry I 'll need to wear tomorrow ?
Did you talk to him ? Do you know his plans ?
What a storm ! Your highness , please , I 'm begging you --
Well , I 'll get married one day , just to see . Here comes your servant -- your husband must be coming soon .
And I 'm expecting his reproach .
Gregory , I swear , we ca n't let them humiliate us . We wo n't take their garbage .
Where is he ?
The forests , the skies , the mountains , everything around us seemed to echo the barks of the hounds . I 'd never heard such raucous music , such pleasant thunder .
I 'll go with you , my lord , if you 'll allow me .
Pardon him , Caesar , pardon him . I fall to your feet to beg you to restore Publius Cimber to citizenship .
Jack , meet me at Temple Hall at two o'clock tomorrow . You 'll get the list of your troops there , plus some money and an order for their equipment . The country is on fire , and Percy 's riding high . Either they or we must die .
Ca n't you see for yourself ?
Now go , the time is right . Your servants are waiting .
Yours , if we 're talking about tales . I 'm leaving .
Oh , she shows the torches how to burn bright ! She stands out against the darkness like a jeweled earring hanging against the cheek of an African . Her beauty is too good for this world ; she 's too beautiful to die and be buried . She outshines the other women like a white dove in the middle of a flock of crows . When this dance is over , I 'll see where she stands , and then I 'll touch her hand with my rough and ugly one . Did my heart ever love anyone before this moment ? My eyes were liars , then , because I never saw true beauty before tonight .
Well , I 'm not sorry to hear that , because they have always been my enemies . But the idea that I 'd give my support to Richard and keep my master King Edward IV 's true heirs from the crown -- never . God knows I 'd die before I 'd do that .
I 've sworn my love to both of these sisters . They 're jealous of each other like poisonous snakes . Which one of them should I pick ? Both ? One ? Neither ? I ca n't enjoy either of them as long as the other one 's alive . Goneril would go crazy if I chose Regan , but it would be hard to get in with Goneril while her husband 's still alive . I 'll use Albany 's power and authority for now to win the war , but afterward one of the sisters -- whichever one wants to -- can get rid of him . Albany wants to spare Lear and Cordelia , but once they are my prisoners after the battle , they wo n't stay alive long enough to see his pardon . I have to defend my position with actions , not words .
What 's up , mister ?
I spoke with some of the sailors who survived the wreck .
Sir , what is your opinion of me ?
Of all places , I do n't like the Tower . Did n't Julius Caesar build it , my lord ?
Tell me , Captain Macmorris , have you left the tunnels ? Have the excavators stopped work ?
What do you have to say for yourself ?
We want answers . Give us answers .
Oh my , what 's the news ? Why do you look so upset ?
I 'll get it done right away .
Think about Vaughan , and drop your lance from fear and guilt . Despair , and die !
Orsino .
I 'm game .
If that 's what you want , all right . We 'll go forward with you and meet them at Philippi .
Help me ! Get some light ! Get me a surgeon !
The spirit is torturing me . Oh !
him terribly . It would make him curse the heavens and be damned to hell .
Yes , every one of them . There is n't one of them who does n't admire you , and each one of them wishes you had as high an opinion of yourself as every noble Roman has of you . This is Trebonius .
Do n't saints and pilgrims have lips too ?
You sent him home without his boots , and in foul weather ? How in the devil 's name did he avoid catching fevers ?
What 's up , daughter and niece ? Have you snuck over here to watch the wrestling ?
Time is our commander , and time proposes we be on our way .
Damn ! How can he take the leisure of being sick at such a frantic time ? Who 's in charge of his army ? Who 's leading them here ?
No doubt , no doubt . And so will Clarence , for your enemies are his enemies , and they have gotten the upper hand of him as well as of you .
I 'm going to find out what you 're thinking .
What blessed work , my king . If there 's anyone among this princely group who mistakes me for an enemy -- if by accident or in anger I have done anything to offend you --I want to join with you in peaceful friendship . It kills me to be enemies with you . I hate it and want all good men 's love . First , madam , I want there to be peace between you and me , which I will buy with my obedient service to you . And peace with you , my noble cousin Buckingham , if you ever felt any grudge against me ; and with you , Lord Rivers , and , Lord Grey , with you . In fact , I want to get along with everyone who has frowned on me without good cause --dukes , earls , lords , gentlemen , everyone . There is not an Englishman alive with whom I 'm at odds , anymore than a newborn baby would be . I thank God for my humbleness .
I wo n't leave him alone until he gives Cassio his job back . --How are you , my lord ?
He 's certainly frank , is n't he , sir ? Give him enough money and he 'll be happy with a puppet , a paper doll , or a diseased old hag without a tooth in her head . If she 's got money , what does it matter ?
Such an expression of despair would only prove that I was guilty .
Leave it alone , you fool . It 's worthless .
Petruchio , since the conversation 's gone this far , I may as well carry on with what I mentioned purely as a joke . I can help you find a wife who 's rich , young , beautiful , and reared in a manner fit for a gentlewoman . Her only flaw -- and it 's a big one -- is that she 's unbearable , a total witch , so much so that I would n't think of marrying her myself , not even if I were in a worse fix than I am , not for a whole goldmine .
I wo n't allow it .
I swear , it 's extremely well thought out .
This fellow 's gone mad , and so have I. We 're in some kind of dream world . Please , somebody , get us out of here !
If I see anything tonight that convinces me not to marry her , I 'll shame her tomorrow in the very congregation where I would have married her .
Did you call me ? Do you need something ?
Good , very good .
Do n't do it , sir .
Cheer up , father . How are you ? Sir Nicholas Gawsey called for reinforcements , and so has Clifton . I 'm going to Clifton right now .
The wind you 're talking about is blowing us off our course . Dinner is over , and we 're going to get there too late .
The future will be affected by today 's terrible events . Today is the start of a terror that will end in the days ahead .
Oh yes , I heard them all , and more , too . Some of those lines had more feet than the verses could bear .
You 've played the role of harpy very well , my Ariel . You were fierce but graceful . You said everything I told you to say . --In the same lifelike way , and with the same attention to detail , my lower-ranking servants have done what they were supposed to do . My magic powers are all in full swing , and my enemies are confused and running around in circles . They 're under my control , and I 'm keeping them in their crazy fits while I go visit Ferdinand , whom they think has drowned , and the young woman he and I both love .
Hold on a moment , and listen to my advice . The princes left your daughter here for dead . Hide her for a while in your house , and tell everyone that she has , in fact , died . Make a bug show of mourning for her , hang sad epitaphs up at your family 's tomb , and perform all the appropriate burial ceremonies .
Let it be a quarrel between us , if you live .
And what should I give you that would be equal in value to this rare and precious gift ?
It 's almost four .
I 'm sure I can answer for him -- he does n't know any , either .
She is not , madam .
Have you heard of me , most noble Empress ?
I 'll be damned if it is n't 4 A. M. already . The Big Dipper has already risen above the chimney , and our horses are n't ready yet . Hey , ostler !
Oh , so madmen like you are also deaf .
The ground feels flat to me .
Damn my false French . I tell you truly , in true English : I love you , Kate . And though I would n't dare to swear that you love me , still my blood begins to flatter me that you do , despite the ill effects of my face . Curse my father 's ambition ! He was thinking of civil wars when he conceived me , and consequently my outward appearance is harsh and steely . I intimidate ladies when I come to woo them . But I promise you , Kate : the older I grow the better I 'll look . My comfort is that old age , that poor preserver of beauty , ca n't make my face any worse than it already is . If you have me , you have me now at my worst ; and if you have me , you 'll appreciate me better and better . Therefore tell me , fairest Katherine , will you have me ? Put aside your maiden blushes and speak your true feelings with the bearing of an empress . Take me by the hand and say , " Harry of England , I am yours . " No sooner shall I hear that word than I will tell you straight out , " England is yours , Ireland is yours , France is yours , and Harry Plantagenet
Let him be the devil if he wants to , I do n't care . God will protect me . What do I care who it is ?
Know him ? Yes .
So why are n't our eyelids heavy ? I 'm not sleepy at all .
Swear .
My lord , I 'll do it right away .
The morning is approaching . We 'll leave , Brutus . Friends , go your separate ways . But all of you , remember what you 've said and prove yourselves true Romans .
Then you 're a better man than the king .
As much as an apple looks like an oyster , but whatever .
If the English had any sense , they would run away .
The Egyptian snake is born when the sun shines on the Nile mud , just like the crocodile .
Let go of him , peasant , or you die !
Here , take my sword . The heavens are being stingy with their light . Take this , too . I 'm tired and feeling heavy , but I ca n't sleep . Merciful powers , keep away the nightmares that plague me when I rest !
I do n't wish that on you .
Did n't you just say he was ?
Gentlemen , we wo n't stay here and anger you further . I 'm sorry about your daughter 's death , but I swear our accusations were true , and backed up with proof .
One moy is not enough . I must have forty moys , or I will reach into your throat and pull out some moys , along with a lot of blood .
I saw that . The sight made me so sick I could n't watch any more .
And thane of Cawdor too . Is n't that what they said ?
Do n't spend any more time here . Go tell your generals to hurry their preparations .
It 's just like they said -- now I 'm the thane of Glamis and the thane of Cawdor . And the best part of what they predicted is still to come . Thank you for the news . Are n't you beginning to hope your children will be kings ? After all , the witches who said I was thane of Cawdor promised them nothing less .
Fake , I 'm telling you .
But your mistrust alone ca n't make me a traitor --on what basis do you suspect me ?
We 're here to say " amen " to that .
What captain do you serve ?
Oh , please , I 'm begging you , do n't mention him again . But if you want to tell me that someone else loves me , I 'd enjoy hearing that more than I 'd enjoy listening to angels sing .
Now , my good sweet honey sir , come with us tomorrow . I have an idea for a practical joke , and I ca n't do it by myself . Falstaff , Peto , Bardolph , and Mr. Gadshill will rob the travelers we 're planning to ambush , but you and I wo n't be there . If you and I do n't rob them once they have the loot , then chop off my head !
Oh , this is fine , good captains . And I 'll answer you , if I may , when I get a chance . Indeed I will .
Oh , you devil , you devil ! You can cry all day and all night , and I still wo n't believe you 're sad . Get out of my sight !
Yes , Hamlet .
Gentleness is the only way to go -- gently , gently . The devil inside him is rough , but we ca n't treat it roughly .
Lights , lights , get us some lights !
Listen ! Someone knocks . Portia , go inside awhile , and soon enough you 'll share the secrets of my heart . I 'll explain all that I have committed to do and all the reasons for my sad face . Leave me quickly .
Say something , man !
I ca n't , ma'am . My lady ordered me to deliver her letter .
Did you hear Antony ? Caesar would n't take the crown . Therefore it 's certain that he was n't ambitious .
The town is asking for a pause in the fighting for negotiation .
My lord , I have no idea what 's upset you , but whatever it is , I had nothing to do with it .
I would think you 're a royal hypocrite .
Because his hide is so leathery from his trade that he keeps the water off him a long time , and water is what makes your goddamn body rot more than anything . Here 's a skull that 's been here twenty-three years .
On my honor , I feel the same .
Come with me , I 'll show you , and along the way , you can tell me where you live . Will you come ?
Find out what they 're being held for .
I must indeed . That 's why I came here . Good and noble young man , do n't mess with someone who 's desperate . Get away from here and leave me . Think about the ones who have died . Let them put fear in your heart . Please , young man , do n't make me angry . I do n't want to commit another crime . Oh , go away ! I swear , I love you more than I love myself . For I 've come here with weapons to use against myself . Do n't stay here , go away . Live , and from now on , say a madman mercifully told you to run away .
He 's flabby and out of breath . --Here , Hamlet , take my handkerchief and wipe your forehead . The queen drinks to your good luck and happiness , Hamlet .
Steal cream is right -- you 've stolen so much that it 's turned you into butter . But tell me , Jack , whose soldiers are those ?
" Katherine the shrew ! " That 's the worst thing you can call a young woman .
Gallus , you go with him .
Look . He 's like a clock winding up to strike the hour .
Get yourself to a convent at once . Why would you want to give birth to more sinners ? I 'm fairly good myself , but even so I could accuse myself of such horrible crimes that it would 've been better if my mother had never given birth to me . and
Let 's go for it . I 'm a very good singer , and can sing rounds like a dog .
Well , how nice , a riddle ! Neither good nor bad . Why do you go around in circles when you could get to the point ? Once again , what 's the news ?
Who started this trouble after I left ?
But you ca n't see where you 're going , sir .
No , I swear I 'm not .
The thieves have tied up the honest men . If you and I can now rob the robbers and run laughing to London , we would talk about it for a week , laugh about it for a month , and it would be a hilarious story forever .
Do n't misunderstand me , sir . I 'm just stating the facts as I see them . Where are you from ? What 's your name ?
What , is trusting a friend such a crime ? The criminal is the one who stole the nest .
Brown , madam , and she would n't want her forehead to be any lower .
I politely told him what our issues were . I accused him of breaking his promise to us , and here 's how he answered : he lied about the fact that he lied . He called us rebels , traitors , and said he 'd punish us with his mighty army .
It would be just like a nice daydream or fantasy . Well , take him on up and we 'll try to pull it off . Carry him to my best room -- gently , so he does n't wake -- and hang all my erotic paintings around him . Bathe his filthy head with warm , scented water . Burn fragrant wood to give the room a pleasant smell , and have musicians at hand , ready to produce sweet , soothing sounds when he awakes . You want to be ready in case he speaks . If he does , bow low and say deferentially , " What would your Honor have us do ? " Have one servant wait on him with a basin of rosewater , have another servant carry a pitcher , and a third a cloth . Say , " Would your Lordship care to freshen up ? " Have someone standing by with expensive clothes , and ask him what he 'd care to wear . Have another servant tell him about the dogs and horses that he owns and that his wife is grief-stricken over his illness . Convince him that he has been out of his mind -- and when he says he 's out of his mind now , tell him he 's mistaken and that he is in fact a mighty lord . Do this -- make it convincing -- and we 'll have fun . It could work if it 's done subtly .
I 'm not sure , my lord . But it may be a good idea to restrain your rage until you find out exactly what he meant . If you go after him and then find out that you made a mistake , it would damage your reputation and greatly undermine his loyalty to you . I 'll bet my life that he only wrote this letter to gauge my love for you , and for no other reason .
Well , let 's sit down and listen to Barnardo tell us .
Are you in your right mind ?
Still talking about my daughter , I see .
You do n't know that ? Any fool could tell you , it was the day that young Hamlet was born -- the one who went crazy and got sent off to England .
But in your daughter 's womb I will bury them . In that rich nest they shall grow again , to console you .
No , a whole share for me . For you know , my dearest Damon , That Jove , king of the gods , was Thrown out of power here , and Who 's in charge ? A big -- peacock .
Oh , I 'm dead !
Follow me . Do n't defend him . He 's a traitor . Come on , I 'll chain your neck and feet together , and I 'll give you sea water to drink . Your food will be slugs , dry roots , and acorn shells . Come on .
What are you talking about , sir ?
I will , my lord .
Where could I have lost that handkerchief , Emilia ?
Then you 'll be good at catchy tunes . Dogs like to play catch .
Are you that impatient ? God knows I waited for you in anguish , pain , and agony when I gave birth to you .
We ca n't think that way about what we did . If we do , it 'll drive us crazy .
Sir John Falstaff .
Sweet flowers for a sweet girl . Goodbye ! I once hoped you 'd be my Hamlet 's wife . I thought I 'd be tossing flowers on your wedding bed , my sweet girl , not on your grave .
Then it 's confirmed ! That 's even more proof , and the case against her was airtight already . Would the two princes and Claudio lie ? Claudio , who loved her so much that talking about her wickedness made him weep ?
Pig , Pig ! You lie ! Come on ! I 'll tell you what , you damned flabby - faced moron : if I have a miscarriage now , you 'll wish you 'd hit your own mother , you pasty-faced villain !
Nobody 's that bad . It 's impossible .
Here 's to you , good Lord Westmoreland .
I fear that you 're another fake ; and yet , you bear yourself like a king . Whoever you are , you 're mine , and I 'll defeat you .
That 's good , my boy . But where have you been ?
All the things that we prepared for the wedding party will now be used for the funeral . Our happy music will now be sad . Our wedding banquet will become a sad burial feast . Our celebratory hymns will change to sad funeral marches . Our bridal flowers will cover a buried corpse . And everything will be used for the opposite purpose from what we intended .
Never , my lord .
Look , I do n't love you , so stop following me around . Where are Lysander and beautiful Hermia ? Lysander I want to stop , but Hermia stops my heart from beating . You told me they escaped into this forest . And here I am , going crazy in the middle of the woods because I ca n't find my Hermia . Go away , get out of here , and stop following me .
My lord , the beautiful Helena told me about their secret plan to escape into this forest . I was furious and followed them here , and the lovely Helena was so in love with me that she followed me .
What did you think about that French lord , Monsieur le Bon ?
It 's a deal . I 'll agree to those terms and even say that Jews are nice .
And Trinculo 's drunk . Where did they find the liquor to get drunk on?- - How did you get this way ?
I do n't know . When grown-ups teach little children , they do it gently and easily . He might have treated me like that , because I 'm as unused to abuse as a little child .
If our eyes were policemen , they might capture two thieves at once while we 're embracing .
Well , do whatever you think best .
Do n't be afraid of her company . I met Venus as she was with her son on her way to her home on Paphos , in a carriage pulled by doves . They were planning to pull a mischievous trick on Ferdinand and Miranda , who have sworn not to sleep together till their wedding day . But their trick failed . Venus went home again , and her little son broke all his arrows , swearing he 'll never shoot them again , but play with birds like other little boys .
Tell us , Othello . Did you trick or deceive this lady in some way ? Or did you agree to this as equals ?
I 'm sure it is to knight you , Captain .
My love , I will have to leave you soon . My body is growing weak , and I will leave you behind in this beautiful world , honored and much loved . Perhaps you 'll find another husband --
Sir , Octavius has already arrived in Rome .
What should I do that I 'm not doing ?
Your superiors .
I 'm going to tell my lady about this right away . I would n't be in any of your shoes if you paid me .
Okay , let 's go ! Everything 's fine now . One of us will stay and stand guard .
Would I send a lie ? Have I accomplished so much in battle , but now I 'm afraid to tell some old men the truth ?
Apologize ? Do you think this kind of thing is appropriate for the royal family ? " Dear daughter , I admit I 'm old . Old people are useless . I 'm begging you , on my knees , to give me food , clothes , and a bed . "
It is a trade , sir , that I practice with a clear conscience . I am a mender of worn soles .
You gave money to me ? She might have given me her best wishes , master , but she did n't give me one scrap of money .
First , please forgive me , my lord . A group of citizens followed some criminals into this bar .
Why , I will .
You do your job well . Go back and tell your king I do not seek an encounter with him now but would be willing to march on to Calais without interference , for -- to be honest , though it 's probably unwise to confess this to a powerful enemy who has the advantage -- my men are considerably weakened by illness , my numbers reduced , and those few men I have almost no better than so many Frenchmen , though when they were in good form , I tell you , herald , I thought three Frenchmen walked on every pair of English legs . But God forgive me for bragging . It 's a vice I 've picked up since I 've been here , and I must get rid of it . Anyway , go tell your master I am here . My ransom is my own fragile , worthless body , my army but a weak and sickly escort . But , before God , tell him we will advance , even if the king of France himself and another foe as strong should stand in our way . That 's for your trouble , Montjoy . Go tell your master to consider carefully . If we 're allowed to pass , we will . If we 're prevented , we 'll discolor your golden ground with your red blood . And so , Montjoy , farewell . This is our whole answer : We do not seek a battle nor will we avoid one . Tell your master this .
Yes , sir .
I 'll see you tomorrow morning , gentlemen .
There will be time to mourn for this . Sometimes poison can be a kind of medicine : this news , which would have made me sick had I been well , has , because I am sick , made me well . A dying man -- his joints weakened by fever , dangling like useless hinges and crumpling under the man 's own weight -- will sometimes be stuck with a fit of impatience , causing him to burst out of his caretaker 's arms . My limbs are like that now ; once weakened by grief , they 're now enraged by grief , and are three times as powerful as they were before . Away from me , you unmanly crutch ! Chain mail armor will cover my hands now . Away from me , you invalid 's cap ! You are too fanciful a helmet for this head which is now the target of kings , grown arrogant with their victories . Wrap my head in iron , and then attack me with the roughest things that destiny and hatred will dare to bring upon me in my rage . Let the sky come crashing down ! Let the ocean overflow the shores ! Let law and order die ! And let the world no longer be a stage for a long , drawn-out struggle : let the spirit of
Hmmm , I 'm not sure I believe what you 're saying . Men under torture will confess anything .
Things have turned out so unluckily , sir , that we have n't had time to convince our daughter to marry you . Listen , she loved her cousin Tybalt dearly , and so did I. Well , we were all born to die . It 's very late , she wo n't be coming downstairs tonight . Believe me , if you were n't here visiting me , I myself would have gone to bed an hour ago .
Get away from me , you ass ! You ass !
And how are you doing , staring into the empty air and talking to nobody ? Your eyes give away your wild thoughts , and your hair is standing upright , like soldiers during a call to arms . Oh my dear son , calm yourself and cool off your overheated mind ! What are you staring at ?
What else did you hear ?
Oh , Hamlet , stop ! You 're making me look into my very soul , where the marks of sin are so thick and black they will never be washed away .
Yes , we have to be quiet , even if it 's torture .
And for that crime , Romeo is hereby exiled from Verona . I 'm involved in your rivalry . Mercutio was my relative , and he lies dead because of your bloody feud . I 'll punish you so harshly that you 'll regret causing me this loss . I wo n't listen to your pleas or excuses . You ca n't get out of trouble by praying or crying , so do n't bother . Tell Romeo to leave the city immediately , or else , if he is found , he will be killed . Take away this body , and do what I say . Showing mercy by pardoning killers only causes more murders .
Good Hermia , please do n't act so bitter toward me . I always loved you , Hermia , and gave you advice . I never did anything to hurt you -- except once , when I told Demetrius that you planned to sneak off into this forest . And I only did that because I loved Demetrius so much . He followed you . And I followed him because I loved him . But he told me to get lost and threatened to hit me , kick me -- even kill me . Now just let me go quietly back to Athens . I 'll carry my mistakes back with me . I wo n't follow you anymore . Please let me go . You see how naive and foolish I 've been .
They 're coming . I ca n't talk now . Take your seat .
Well , let 's go on .
I wo n't be eating dinner at home . I 'll be meeting the captains at the citadel .
Please let her speak . If she admits she wanted this , then I wo n't blame Othello . --Come here , my child . Who do you obey here ?
Listen to me , Queen . There is an emergency I must take care of , but my whole heart will remain here with you . My Italy is full of civil war . Sextus Pompeius is sailing toward the port of Rome . When two domestic opponents are equally matched -- as we are against Pompey -- factions will form on the smallest of pretexts . When a formerly hated man grows powerful , he suddenly finds himself with many supporters . Pompey , who was once condemned , now wields his father 's power , and all the citizens who have grievances against the government are joining him . Pompey 's numbers are steadily growing , and the government is ready to do something desperate . But my personal motivation -- and that which should move you most to sanction my departure -- is that Fulvia is dead .
Here comes Lorenzo . We 'll talk about this later .
And I do n't believe you 're thinking clearly now , as you break those promises .
Then see a good one for me .
He may speak to you graciously , but his body feels otherwise .
When Octavius Caesar 's father thought about conquering kingdoms , he rained kisses on my unworthy hand .
Farewell to you , and you , and you , Volumnius . Strato , you 've slept this whole time . Farewell to you too , Strato . Countrymen , my heart rejoices that in all my life I knew no men who were untrue to me . I 'll have glory in this losing day -- more than Octavius and Mark Antony will gain by their foul conquest . So farewell , all , for my tongue has almost finished with its life . I ca n't see ahead of me . My bones want to rest after helping me up to this hour .
Liar and slave !
Do n't be afraid of him , Caesar . He is n't dangerous . He 's a noble Roman with a good disposition .
You are nothing less than a lord . You have a noble wife who is much more beautiful than any other woman in this declining age .
I was with the heroes Hercules and Cadmus once , when their Spartan hunting dogs cornered a bear . I 'd never heard such impressive barking before .
Tomorrow , my lord . Time will move as slowly as an old man until our love receives its proper ceremony .
I 've acted like such a villain !
I will advise him to speak as he usually does . If Caesar makes him mad , let Antony stand tall and speak as loudly as Mars , the god of war . By Jupiter , if I were Antony , I would n't shave my beard today . I 'd leave it long and dare Caesar to insult me by pulling on it , just so I could fight him .
That " may be " must be , love , on Thursday .
It will be the end of all of us ! There is absolutely no way that the King will keep his word and trust us again . He will always be wary of us . He 'll find other reasons to punish us for this rebellion . For the rest of our lives he and his loyalists will look on us with suspicion . Treason is like a fox : you can tame it , care for it , and put it in a cage , but it will always have the wild instincts it inherited from its ancestors . No matter how we look -- sad or happy -- people will interpret our looks in the worst possible light . We 'll be like oxen in a stall : the better they 're fed , the closer they are to being slaughtered . My nephew 's disloyalty might be forgiven : his young age and hot temper will excuse it . Plus , his nickname gives him permission : Hotspur the Harebrain , always flaring up . All his offenses will be blamed on me and his father . After all , we encouraged him , and since we taught him to be angry at the King , we 'll pay for it . So cousin , do n't by any means let Harry know what the King offered .
Why , sweet Othello --
And when is he leaving ?
We can both sleep together on the grass . We 'll have one heart , one bed , two bodies , and one faithful vow .
Please bear with me . I ca n't go any further .
I 'm being repaid for that now . Help me out of here . I feel faint . Oh , Iras , Charmian ! It does n't matter . Good Alexas , go ask that fellow to describe Octavia . How old is she ? What kind of disposition does she have ? Do n't let him leave out the color of her hair . Bring me his answers quickly .
God forbid ! Bring me some light , gentlemen , I 'll bind the wound with my shirt .
Everything we 're doing for you , even if it were doubled and then doubled again , is nothing compared to the honors you have brought to our family . We gladly welcome you as our guests , with gratitude for both the honors you 've given us before and the new honors you 've just given us .
" Do n't fail to do this , since you 'll -- "
There 's nothing I 'd love more than to make a fool out of that guy somehow . I could challenge him to a duel and then not show up . That would do the trick .
I have to follow him and give him the letter .
Cambio is transformed into Lucentio .
I still have the smell of blood on my hand . All the perfumes of Arabia could n't make my little hand smell better . Oh , oh , oh !
Trinculo , speak politely . If you mutiny against me , I 'll hang you from the next tree . This poor monster is my subject , and I will not allow him to be insulted .
Prick him .
Then I 'll water all those precious herbs with my tears to make them grow . May they relieve a sick old man 's suffering . Go find those herbs for him , before his madness puts his life in danger .
But that 's not how you 're going to be .
He 's gotten so used to graves that they do n't bother him anymore .
No , there 's no need . To assure you that I am a nobleman in disguise , here is some money . If you see Cordelia -- as I 'm sure you will -- show her this ring . She 'll tell you who I am . Damn this storm ! I 'll go find the king .
Indeed , you would be out if I were your mistress -- if my chastity is worth as much as my wit .
There 's still a spot here .
Which he , sir ?
Usually that means a person is foolish . What color is her hair ?
sound like your average young guy , the kind of trouble they get into .
That 's very sensible , but you missed my sense : I meant Hortensio is afraid of you .
Here 's the will , written under Caesar 's seal . To every Roman citizen he gives -- to every individual man -- seventy - five drachmas .
I saw her , but I did n't notice her .
Thank you for asking , uncle . Oh , my lord , you once said that lazy weeds grow fast . The prince has far outgrown me .
Please tell me , sir , who was that foulmouthed punk who was so full of crude jokes ?
It seems like he 's waning , but out of politeness we 'll have to wait and see .
Do n't worry , I 'll do what you say . Now hide , I hear him coming .
And they 've been plotting things together . I 'm not saying you 'll get a masquerade party , but if you do , I predicted it . I knew there would be a masquerade when I got that bad omen of a bloody nose last Easter Monday , at six in the morning , four years after I got the same kind of bloody nose on Ash Wednesday , in the afternoon .
No , just help me unpin this . That Lodovico is a good-looking man .
What , faithful to being mean and nasty ? You 're not polite ! I breathed from my soul the most faithful offerings to your ungrateful altars that any devoted person has ever offered -- what more am I supposed to do ?
What 's your name ?
There 's justice in heaven after all ! That these crimes are punished so quickly is proof . But oh , poor Glou-cester ! Did he lose his other eye ?
No , my lord , your polite words are not to the point . If you could please stop fooling around , I 'll tell you what your mother wants . If not , I 'll leave you alone and that 'll be the end of my business .
There is no better one on earth .
You know I 'm my father 's only child , and he is n't likely to have another . And when he dies , you will inherit his fortune -- because whatever he took from your father by force , I will return to you as affection . I swear I will , and if I ever break my promise let me turn into a monster . So please , my sweet Rose , my dear Rose , be happy .
How much does he owe the Jew ?
You told me you hated him .
Well , let him . He 'll talk himself out , soon .
I must say , the king is taking a bold risk letting these traitors go free .
You piece of filth , you 're lying !
That 's right , or drinking , swearing , fist - fighting , visiting prostitutes -- that kind of thing .
When we left , sir , it was here .
Peace to this occasion that 's brought us all together . Health and good day to our brother the king of France and to our sister the queen . Joy and good wishes to our lovely royal cousin , Katherine . And you , Duke of Burgundy , who brought this great assembly together , we salute you as descendent and member of this royal family . And a health to all you lords and princes of France .
I will indeed . And after this I 'll be good and hope you forgive me . What an idiot I was to think this drunkard was a god and to worship such a stupid fool !
I do n't know how to ask you for forgiveness , but I have to say something . Choose your revenge . Punish me through any means you can devise , though I sinned by mistake .
Keep your voice down .
My lord , get ready . The King has launched his attack .
Bring out the stocks ! --We 'll teach you , you stubborn old bastard , you arrogant show - off .
It 's his fault that he 's all worked up like this . He has to pay the price for his foolish actions .
Here 's why : it 'd be better for the enemy to come after us . That way , he 'll waste his provisions and tire out his soldiers , weakening his own capacities , while we , lying still , are rested , energetic , and nimble .
A nice stool .
In a strange way , they say .
It wo n't have to , Harry , for the time has come for one of us to die . I only wish that you had as great a reputation in warfare as I do .
No , please do n't try to excuse your departure . Just say good-bye and go . When you begged to stay , that was the time for words . You did n't want to go then ! You saw eternity in my lips and eyes , and happiness in the arch of my eyebrows . Then , all my parts seemed angelic to you . My features are still that beautiful -- or else you , the greatest soldier in the world , have become the greatest liar by overpraising them .
Here are the rulers of France and Burgundy , my lord .
Shadow , whose son are you ?
All right , I 'll stop .
Has your lord given you any orders to negotiate with my face ? I do n't think so . You 're overstepping your bounds now . But I 'll open the curtain and let you see the picture . Look , sir , this is a portrait of me as I am at this particular moment . It 's pretty well done , is n't it ?
A just God has discovered our plot . I regret my crime more than my death , and I beg your Highness to forgive me , while punishing my body with death .
Come on , quit fooling around . Give me your blessing . I 'm Launcelot , who was your boy , is your son , and will be your child .
I cannot and I will not keep quiet . My voice will have its way , even if my heart ca n't . He is misshapen , crooked , old , and withered . His face is ugly , and his body is even worse -- all shapeless , everywhere . He is vicious , mean , foolish , blunt , unkind . His body is deformed , and his mind is worse .
I think that Macedon is indeed where Alexander was born . I tell you , Captain , if you look at a map of the world , I 'll bet you will find , comparing Macedon and Monmouth , that the situations , see , are very similar .
By God ! This shepherd 's condition is like my own .
And with that , any hope we had for him is thrown to the ground and dashed to pieces .
You might have a great opportunity to give it to him right now . He 's conducting some business with my lady , and sooner or later he 'll leave .
Who 's talking to him now ?
Knock , sir ? Whom should I knock ? Has anyone offended your Worship ?
And smelled like that , too ? Whew !
Yes , that 's me .
Forgive me ! Forgive me !
Wow , he 's a real devil . I 've never seen such a monster . I had a round with him , and his sword thrust is so deadly that you ca n't even duck out of the way . And when he strikes back at you , he 'll hit you as sure as you 're standing there . They say he used to fence for the shah of Persia .
Then we 're even kinder people for thanking them for something that they 're not good at . We 'll entertain ourselves by accepting their mistakes . When poor dutiful people ca n't do certain things well , generous people can consider the effort they put into it rather than the effect that they produce . In my travels , great scholars have come up to me , meaning to greet me with well-rehearsed welcoming speeches , and I have seen them tremble and turn pale , and pause inappropriately in the middle of their sentences , and botch their well-rehearsed tones of voice because they 're so nervous , and then break off abruptly at the end , without actually welcoming me . Trust me , my sweet , I figured out that they were trying to welcome me even though they were silent , and that message was as clear from someone who was modest and nervously dutiful as it is from someone who is loud and audacious and eloquent . Therefore , love and tongue-tied simplicity can say the most even when they 're saying the least , in my opinion .
You 'd better think up a way to defend yourself . I do n't know what you 've done to upset him , but someone has challenged you to a duel . He 's riled up and bloodthirsty , and he 's waiting for you at the back of the orchard . Draw your sword and get on your toes , because your assailant is quick , skillful , and deadly .
I hope I weigh heavily on your soul tomorrow ! It 's me , drowned to death in a nauseating barrel of wine . It 's me , poor Clarence , whom you betrayed to death ! Tomorrow in battle , think of me and drop your useless sword . Despair , and die ! Offspring of the House of Lancaster , the wronged heirs of York pray for you . Good angels protect your fight ! Live and prosper !
Well , in that case , all right . We all pay for what we like sooner or later .
Chat her up , Sir Andrew . Chat her up .
I beg you , remember the good work I 've done for you , and how I 've never lied to you , never made mistakes , and never grumbled in my work . You promised to take a full year off my sentence .
Beware of March 15th .
My mistress Titania is in love with a monster . While she was sleeping in her bed of flowers , a group of bumbling idiots , rough workmen from Athens , got together nearby to rehearse some play they plan to perform on Theseus 's wedding day . The stupidest one , who played Pyramus in their play , finished his scene and went to sit in the bushes to wait for his next cue . I took that opportunity to stick a donkey 's head on him . When it was time for him to go back onstage and talk to his Thisbe , he came out of the bushes and everyone saw him . His friends ran away as fast as ducks scatter when they hear a hunter 's gunshot . One of them was so frightened when he heard my footsteps that he yelled , " Murder ! " and called for help from Athens . They were all so afraid that they completely lost their common sense . They started to become scared of inanimate objects , terrified by the thorns and briars that catch at their clothing and pull off their sleeves and hats . I led them on in this frightened , distracted state , and left sweet
Ratcliffe , come here . Ride to Salisbury . When you get there -- Stupid , distracted rascal , why are you still standing there ? Why have n't you left for the duke 's ?
Ungodly and monstrous !
I 'd rather hear Lady , my dog , howl in Irish .
Do n't joke about this , Enobarbus . I 'm telling you the truth . You 'd better bring the messenger safely through the lines so he can return . I 'd do it myself , but I ca n't leave my post . Your Emperor is still a king among gods .
Welcome , lady .
You thought it made sense , and you listened to him about who should be marked to die in these harsh death sentences .
And God take him away from me when we 're finished dancing ! Go ahead -- say " Amen . "
Think about that , and about what followed afterward . Then tell me if Antonio can be called a brother .
Yes , the duke of Buckingham and I have just returned from visiting him .
You foolish madman , listen to me for a moment .
Catesby , look over the top of these walls to see if anyone 's there .
Killing men in the dark ? Where are these murderers ? This is such a quiet , sleepy town ! --Murder , murder ! --Who 's that coming ? Are you good or evil ?
My lord , you do n't need to apologize . I beg you to pardon me . I 've been so intent on serving God that I 've kept my friends waiting . In any case , what would you like ?
It 's called the evil . Edward 's healing touch is a miracle that I have seen him perform many times during my stay in England . How he receives these gifts from heaven , only he can say . But he cures people with strange conditions -- all swollen , plagued by ulcers , and pitiful to look at , patients who are beyond the help of surgery -- by placing a gold coin around their necks and saying holy prayers over them .
No , it was just a dream .
Go ahead , swear to that , so you 'll be damned to hell for lying . Otherwise the devils will mistake you for an angel and be too scared to grab you . Go ahead , make sure you damn yourself by swearing you 've been faithful to me .
I 'll think of something . But please , tell him how well I faked a faint . Will you come with us ?
Well , Juliet , I 'll lie with you tonight . Let 's see how . Destructive thoughts come quickly to the minds of desperate men ! I remember a pharmacist who lives nearby . I remember he wears shabby clothes and has bushy eyebrows . He makes drugs from herbs . He looks poor and miserable and worn out to the bone . He had a tortoise shell hanging up in his shop as well as a stuffed alligator and other skins of strange fish . There were a few empty boxes on his shelves , as well as green clay pots , and some musty seeds . There were a few strands of string and mashed rose petals on display .
Signior Benedick served well in the war , my lady .
I 'd swear to you on my soul that she 's a good , honest person , sir . If you suspect otherwise , stop thinking that right now because you 're wrong . If any jerk has tried to convince you she 's bad , I hope God curses him . If she 's not honest , faithful , and true , then there 's no such thing as a faithful wife or a happy husband .
So , then , death is a gift , and we are Caesar 's friends , for we 've done him a service by shortening his time spent fearing death . Kneel , Romans , kneel , and let 's wash our hands , up to the elbows , in Caesar 's blood and smear it on our swords . Then we 'll go out , even to the marketplace , and , waving our bloody swords over our heads , let 's cry , " Peace , freedom , and liberty ! "
You 're leaving with my tongue in your tail ? No , come back , Kate . I 'm too much of a gentleman .
Welcome back to Denmark , my lord .
Hamlet ! Hamlet !
Oh , kiss me through the hole in this nasty wall .
But you have to . Just imagine some lady might exist who loves you as powerfully and agonizingly as you love Olivia . But you ca n't love her , and you tell her so . Should n't she just accept that ?
Yes , madam , but he 'll be back tonight .
Do you love me ?
We rejoice to see you , most worthy brother of England . You are welcome here , as are all of you English princes .
You 'd have to kill me to stop me .
Yes , boy , I 'm ready .
You fix your face and I 'll fix my life . You 're like the flagship of our fleet , with a light on its bow -- except that your light is in your nose .
What 's all the commotion , Dromio ? Who 's at the door ?
Whoever gave a thing to Poor Tom ? The devil has chased him through fires , across rivers and whirlpools , and over swamps . The devil has put knives under Tom 's pillow and hangman 's ropes in his church pew , encouraging him to kill himself . The devil has put rat poison next to Poor Tom 's oatmeal and made him gallop his horse over narrow bridges , chasing his own shadow as if it were a traitor . Bless your five senses ! Tom 's chilly . Oh do - de , do - de , do - de . God protect you from tornadoes , evil stars , and diseases ! Take pity on Poor Tom , who is persecuted by the devil . I can almost catch him . There ! ... And over there ! ... And over there !
I swear , you have a good-looking place here , and it 's fancy .
It 's true , her nitpicking is hardly admirable .
My sister 's servant Oswald has certainly run into trouble .
Do you think so ?
He 's a lord to a lord and a man to a man . He is positively stuffed with honorable virtues .
I will too . You 're made of air , so if even you feel sorry for them , imagine the pity that I 'll feel , being one of their own human race . I suffer pain just as much as they do , so I 'll sympathize far more than you . Though I 'm indignant about their evil deeds , I 'll go with my nobler instincts , which tell me to feel some compassion for them . It 's better to act virtuously rather than vengefully . Now that they 're sorry , I do n't want anything more . Go release them , Ariel . I 'll break my spells and bring them back to their senses , and they 'll feel like themselves again .
Oh Cassius , I 'm tired out by many sorrows .
We 'll sleep instead of talk . We know what 's appropriate for a watch .
The man who killed Mercutio , which way did he go ? Tybalt , that murderer , which way did he run ?
Mistress , you have to go see your father .
Yes , I 'll go with you now .
Then there 's the Count Palatine .
If you just listen to him discuss theological matters , you 'll find yourself thinking privately what an excellent bishop he would make . Hear him debate matters of domestic policy , and you 'd swear he had made them his constant study . Listen to him talk about war , and you 'll hear elegant and thrilling accounts of the battles . Bring up any political topic , and he 'll untangle it as easily as if it were his own garter . And the result is that when he speaks , the very air -- which is free to go where it likes -- stops dead , and men stand in silent wonder , hoping to catch the benefit of his gorgeous utterances . There must be skill and experience behind all this abstract thought , but it 's anyone 's guess how he obtained it , since in his youth he preferred shallow pursuits , with uneducated , crude and superficial companions . He spent his time drunken , overfed , and constantly seeking out entertainment , with no inclination for learning or quiet contemplation , nor any limit to his tolerance for public haunts and crowds .
I 'll graft you onto that tree , and when I do I 'll be grafting onto it a medlar . The fruit the tree bears will be the earliest to ripen in the country because , God knows , you 'll be rotten before you 're half - ripe , which is how medlars are .
No , I think there 's more to this than you 're letting on . Please tell me what you 're thinking -- even your worst suspicions .
Drink up . Liven up the party .
But mistress , know yourself . Get down on your knees and thank heaven for sending you such a good man . I 'm telling you , as a friend , that you should sell while the market 's good -- you 're not going to have many more buyers . Ask this man 's forgiveness , love him , and accept his offer . You 're already ugly , do n't make matters worse by being scornful , too . So take her , shepherd , and God bless you .
Who 's that calling ? Is it my mother ? Is n't she up very late ? Or is she up very early ? What strange reason could she have for coming here ?
Well , my good fellows , wait on me tonight . Keep my cups full and treat me as you did when my empire was one of your fellow servants , obeying my commands .
Have n't you totally dismissed my honor and integrity in your anger ? For someone as intelligent as you the situation must be clear enough . I 'm wearing my heart on my sleeve , and I ca n't hide my feelings . So let me hear what you have to say .
Ratcliffe , my lord , it 's me . The rooster has already crowed twice . Your friends are up and buckling on their armor .
Our wishes are aligned , then : I give you my blessing .
Tell us about the letters that you got from France .
When you were wooing Desdemona , did Michael Cassio know about it ?
The more I hate him , the more he follows me around .
Have some wine before you go . Goodbye .
Let the world collapse around us .
Do me a favor and scarf it all down yourself , Hortensio . --May it do your gentle heart good , Kate . Eat up quickly , my honey lamb , we 're off to your father 's house to join in the revelry , where we 'll dress as well as the best of them , with silk robes and caps and golden rings , collars and cuffs and fancy frocks and things , with scarves and fans and two changes of clothes , amber bracelets , beads , and plenty of gewgaws . All finished ? The tailor is waiting to deck you out in ruffled finery .
Master , master , look ! Who are these people ?
How literal this guy is ! We have to speak precisely , or he 'll get the better of us with his wordplay . Lord , Horatio , I 've been noticing this for a few years now . The peasants have become so clever and witty that they 're nipping at the heels of noblemen . --How long have you been a gravedigger ?
These boring old fools !
Iago , go and calm down the townspeople . --Come with me , Desdemona . Unfortunately , it 's part of the soldier 's life to be woken up by trouble .
Oh , blessed , blessed night ! Because it 's dark out , I 'm afraid all this is just a dream , too sweet to be real .
Is the duke of Exeter safe ?
He 'll pay for that . Some pigeons , Davy ; a couple of short-legged hens , a leg of lamb , and any fun little fancy dishes . Tell William the cook .
Madam , my instrument 's in tune .
What 's up , swollen Jack ! What 's up , quilt ?
She 's not feeling well . Take her to my tent .
Qualtitie calmie custure me ! Are you a gentleman ? What is your name ? Expound .
My countrymen --
Yes , Cassius . And from now on , when you get hot with me , I 'll assume it 's your mother speaking and leave it at that .
Leaving you is a thousand times worse than being near you . A lover goes toward his beloved as enthusiastically as a schoolboy leaving his books , but when he leaves his girlfriend , he feels as miserable as the schoolboy on his way to school .
What 's that supposed to mean , you crazy man ? You 're in the mood for jokes ? Why are you talking to me about a sheriff 's uniform ?
Nell . But an ell and three-quarters would n't be long enough to measure her waist .
Well , good for him !
That 's a lame answer . By the way , I know where you get all your brave talk about not being afraid of anything .
Who 's sounding that alarm ? The whole town will riot ! God , lieutenant , please stop ! You 'll be ashamed of this forever !
What time is it ?
Stop it , I order you . The next person to strike again dies . What 's going on here ?
Bring here The gentleman who advised you To give away your land . You can stand in his place . The sweet and bitter fool Will appear right away . The sweet fool in a fool 's costume-- that 's me . The bitter one is the other one -- that 's you.LEAR
Do you know the old proverb " The grace of God is enough , " sir ? It could be divided between you and my boss Shylock -- you have " the grace of God , " and he has " enough . "
You 've got enough firewood already .
Hello there , Madame Clucking Chicken ! Have you figured out yet who picked my pocket ?
We have to get out of here , old man . Let me help you up . Let 's go ! King Lear 's been defeated . He and his daughter are captured . Give me your hand . Come on .
Where is Duncan 's body ?
Well , it does n't matter anymore . Dorset has fled to the earl of Richmond .
Keep myself ? The only thing I 'm keeping myself in is the clothes I 'm wearing . They 're good enough to drink in , and so are these boots . If they are n't , they can go hang themselves by their own laces !
I 'll watch over him with as much care and love as possible .
Well , what 's going on , mister ? What kind of life do you lead that your poor friends must beg for your company ? What , you look amused .
The mercy that was alive in me a moment ago was smothered and killed by your own advice . For shame , do n't talk of mercy . Your own arguments turn against you , like dogs who bite their own masters . --Princes and noble peers , take a look at these English monsters . Cambridge here , you know how I favored him and treated him with every respect due his rank . He was bought for a few coins , entering easily into this conspiracy with the French , promising to kill me here in Southhampton . And this knight , whom I 've treated as generously as I have Cambridge , also joined the plot . But , oh , what can I say to you , Lord Scroop ? You cruel , ungrateful , savage , and inhuman creature ! You who had access to all my thoughts , who knew me to the inmost part of my soul , who could have had any amount of gold from me if you 'd needed it and only asked me : is it possible that a foreign power could find in you even enough evil to injure one of my fingers ? Though the truth of your treachery is as plain as black on white , I can scarcely believe it , it 's so past understanding . Treason and murder have always gone together , like two devils joined in a common purpose . That 's natural . But you , against all reason , added something new to the equation . You added the sheer improbability that you could do this . Whatever fiend it was that seduced you must win the prize for excellence in hell . All other devils who tempt people to treason patch together some motive , put together from shreds
Bow - wow .
I 'm more upset about not being able to help you than I am about what 's going to happen to me . You look so confused . Do n't worry about me .
Is n't this good ? Come , my sweet Kate . Better late than never -- and it 's never too late to change .
Oh , brother Montague , give me your hand . This is my daughter 's dowry . I can ask you for nothing more .
When will we get to the top of that cliff ?
Leave them out there for a while , and then open the door .
She 'll see him by starlight . Here she comes . Her moaning and groaning will end the play .
Keep an eye on her , Moor . She lied to me , and she may lie to you .
Alright , I 'm coming ! --I beg you to stop trying for me and leave me to my sadness . Tomorrow I 'll send the messenger .
From our brother monarch , the king of England ?
Shh ! When he 's alone with his thoughts , he 's even more like a haughty peacock . Watch him strut !
it would n't be wise , honest , or responsible for me to tell them .
This jealousy is harming only you ! Drive it out of you .
That does it !
Naked in bed together , but without doing anything ? Come on , Iago . That would be like playing a trick on the devil : they 'd make him think they 're going to commit adultery , but then back off . Anyone who acted like that would be letting the devil tempt them , and tempting God to condemn them .
Why , last night .
I say my prayers out loud .
His letter 's going to be hilarious . But you 're not going to deliver it , are you ?
This 'll be a wonderful kingdom to live in , where they play music for free .
If you want him , dear sister , he 's yours . I swear I 'll woo him for you myself .
Whoa ! Where is everybody ?
Yes , sir . I 'd like to know .
The question is : is it better to be alive or dead ? Is it nobler to put up with all the nasty things that luck throws your way , or to fight against all those troubles by simply putting an end to them once and for all ? Dying , sleeping -- that 's all dying is -- a sleep that ends all the heartache and shocks that life on earth gives us -- that 's an achievement to wish for . To die , to sleep -- to sleep , maybe to dream . Ah , but there 's the catch : in death 's sleep who knows what kind of dreams might come , after we 've put the noise and commotion of life behind us . That 's certainly something to worry about . That 's the consideration that makes us stretch out our sufferings so long .
Whoever 's a real friend should strike me dead .
Well , if he 's not rotten before he dies , he 'll last eight or nine years . A leathermaker will last nine years .
What if your husband strays elsewhere ?
Here , sir .
Fine , but not enough .
Also , sir , this has n't been put down in writing , but I should let you know that this plaintiff here , the criminal , did in fact call me an ass . Please remember that when you 're punishing him . Plus , the watchmen heard the criminals talking about some man named plaintiff . They say that he has an earring made out of a key , with a lock hanging from it . Apparently , he borrows money from people in the name of God and then never pays it back , which angers everyone so much that they now refuse to fund anything in the name of God . Make sure you ask him about this .
Call them all ! I have a legal right to be here . I 'm not moving an inch , pal . Let them come --I do n't care .
Come on now , wine is good for you , if you know how to use it . Do n't say anything bad about wine anymore . Lieutenant , I think you know I 'm your friend .
I know you . Where 's the king ?
But he 's your servant , so everything that 's his must be yours too . Your servant 's servant is your servant , madam .
And it 's too bad that the Moor chose a man with such a deep-rooted drinking problem as his second - in - command . We should definitely say something to the Moor .
Well , whose is it ?
Whoever is born on a day I forget to send a message to Antony will die a beggar . Bring ink and paper , Charmian . Welcome , my good Alexas . Charmian , did I ever love Caesar as much as this ?
It 's a good idea to speak to her , since she might lead those with evil intentions to dangerous conclusions .
You would n't have dared , out of fear for your life .
Hello , sir .
Gower is a good captain , and is well versed and well read in the wars .
The statue I will make of Romeo to lie beside his Juliet will be just as rich . They were poor sacrifices of our rivalry !
I hope so . Lord Westmoreland is back .
What 's going on , daughter ? Why are you frowning like that ? I think you 've been frowning too much recently .
Should I get your nightgown ?
Sounds more like " self-offense , " if you ask me . What I 'm saying is , if she knew she was drowning herself , then that 's an act . An act has three sides to it : to do , to act , and to perform . Therefore she must have known she was drowning herself .
I hope he 's not anywhere so disreputable that thugs like you can find him .
I heard you recite a speech for me once that was never acted out , or if it was , it was performed only once , since the play was not popular -- like caviar for a slob who could n't appreciate it . But the critics and I found it to be an excellent play , with well-ordered scenes that were clever but not fancy .
Sir , fifteen days of March have gone by .
This calm submission is dishonorable and vile . The thrust of a sword will end this surrender . Tybalt , you rat - catcher , will you go fight me ?
Oh , give me a break .
Go ahead . I 'm can take whatever you have to say .
I accept with thanks , Enobarbus .
Orlando , my lord , the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys .
Not a bit , madam .
No ; but he came at me with two hands -- just ask my ears .
I 've never been more exhausted or upset . I 'm all wet from the dew and scratched up by thorns , and I ca n't crawl any farther . I just ca n't go on . My legs ca n't hold themselves up . I 'll sleep here until morning . If they do fight , I hope Lysander is safe !
Thank you , you 're such a polite wall . God bless you for doing this . But what 's this I see ? I do n't see any Thisbe . Oh wicked wall , through which I do n't see any happiness ! Damn your stones for disappointing me like this !
God save the charitable organization !
What did that guy say ? Call the numbskull back in here .
Truly , I would n't even hang a dog , much more a man who has any honesty in him .
Is that all ? How about air and fire ?
Come out , I order you . There 's other work for you to do . Come on , you turtle !
My dear Laertes , in your eagerness to know the truth about your father 's death , are you determined to hurt your father 's friends and enemies alike ?
That was nothing . There were many even more memorable feasts .
Maybe so , Sir John , but I think they look terribly poor and bare ; they look like beggars .
Oh , no ! Darling , I ca n't live without you for two hours .
There 's nothing you can do about it , sir . He insists on fighting with you because he swore he would . But he 's thought over his reason for challenging you to fight , and he realizes it 's so insignificant that it 's not worth thinking about . So draw your sword so he can carry out his vow . He promises not to hurt you .
Our army is already dispersed . They 've headed off to the east , west , north , and south like young bulls whose yokes have been removed . The men are like children after school , each hurrying toward their homes or the playground .
Stop your conscience and do n't listen to him . He wants to take over your thoughts and make you sad .
I 'll tell him right away , my lord .
Let 's pitch our tents right here in Bosworth Field . My Lord of Surrey , why do you look so sad ?
Do n't worry . We 'll restrain ourselves -- no matter how bizarrely he behaves .
This hill is far enough . Look , look , Titinius . Are those my tents on fire ?
That makes you an even bigger villain . --Well , throw him out , and have my officers seize his house and lands . Do this immediately , and send him packing .
Let me go , or I 'll knock you on the head .
We 've got to act fast , my lord of the fairies . Night 's fading quickly , and in the distance the morning star is shining , warning us that dawn is coming . At dawn , the ghosts that have been wandering around all night go home to the graveyards . The souls of people who were n't buried in holy ground , but instead lie rotting by the side of the road or at the bottom of a river , have already gone back to their wormy graves . They were n't buried in a real graveyard because they committed suicide , and they do n't want their shame to be seen in daylight , so they avoid sunlight and stay forever in the darkness of night .
And , just in time , here comes the sweaty lord .
Say what you want , but I know what I know . You beat me at the marketplace , and I have the bruises to prove it . If my skin were paper and your punches were ink , you could read the beating on my body .
What does Caesar want ?
Whatever . I 'm a true man , even if I 'm a dishonest thief . Tell the stable - boy to get my horse . Farewell , you fool .
And I too ?
Cheer up . Give us a smile . Look , love , see how devoted I am ? I 've prepared a meal for you myself , and here it is . I am sure , sweet Kate , this kindness deserves thanks . What , not a word ? I guess you do n't want it . Ah well , all my trouble was for nothing . Here , take away the dish .
hatred . Her crime must be extreme and monstrous , or else your earlier love for her was n't as true as it seemed . But it 'd take a miracle to make me believe she could do anything that horrible .
I am a man again . Pray you sit still .
Yes , I 've got a handful of jokes . But oops , when I let go of your hand , I let go of the biggest joke of all .
And then he 'll ... he 'll ... wait , what was I about to say ? Good God , I was about to say something . What was I saying ?
The same way a person would claim to own his horse . And she wants me as a beast . I do n't mean that she wants me because I 'm a beast , but that she , who is a beast , says I belong to her .
In time I may come to believe you , but I 'm wary .
From head to toe ?
No , he has n't , and we have n't heard from him . --But let 's go in , Jessica . We 'll get ready to welcome the mistress of the house back home .
He wants all my prisoners , for God 's sake ! And when I asked again for him to ransom my brother - in - law , he looked pale , and he shot me a look that could kill . Just the mention of Mortimer 's name makes him shake .
Sorry , sir , Goodman Verges tends to ramble . He 's an old man , sir , and his wits are not as blunt as I wish they were . But truly , he 's as honest as the skin between his brows .
Hey monster , the spirit you 've been talking about , the one you call harmless , has been playing tricks on us .
Come here , hostess .
Thisbe , flowers with sweet odious smells --
Oh , pardon me , you bleeding corpse , for speaking politely and acting mildly with these butchers ! You are what 's left of the noblest man that ever lived . Pity the hand that shed this valuable blood . Over your wounds -- which , like speechless mouths , open their red lips , as though to beg me to speak --I predict that a curse will fall upon the bodies of men .
Damn her ! You 're torturing me , Tubal . That was my turquoise ring ! Leah gave it to me before we were married . I would n't have given it away for a whole jungle of monkeys .
No , let 's follow him .
All of Wales , and everything west of the Severn -- including all the fertile land within those boundaries -- goes to Owen Glendower . And , my dear kinsman , you get everything that remains to the north , coming up from the Trent . Our agreement is drawn up in triplicate . We can all sign it tonight , and then , kinsman Percy , tomorrow you , me , and Worcester will set off to meet your father and the Scottish army at Shrewsbury , as planned . My father-in-law Glendower is n't ready yet , but we wo n't need his army for another two weeks . By that time , you will have raised an army of the farmers on your land , your allies , and your neighbors .
As I came down ?
Portia , what are you doing awake ? It is n't good for your health to expose your weak body to the raw , cold morning .
Sir , I love you more than words can say . I love you more than eyesight , space , and freedom , beyond wealth or anything of value . I love you as much as life itself , and as much as status , health , beauty , or honor . I love you as much as any child has ever loved her father , with a love too deep to be spoken of . I love you more than any answer to the question " How much ? "
Very true . Oh wise judge ! You 're so much older than you look !
I 'm not holding your hand , sir .
Why is he doing this ?
Yes , that 's the idea .
This guy is exactly the kind of person your sister warned us about . --Come on , bring in the stocks , now !
Thank you kindly , sir . Do you know this insect ?
I had no control over her uprisings , Caesar , which arose from her impatience -- and were shrewdly undertaken , as well . I 'm sorry she caused you so much trouble . But you ca n't blame me for her offenses .
Embowelled ? If you cut me open today , I 'll let you pickle me and eat me tomorrow . Damn ! I had to fake
" He who chooses me will get as much as he deserves . " As much as he deserves -- wait a minute there , Morocco , and consider your own value with a level head . If your reputation is trustworthy , you deserve a lot -- though maybe not enough to include this lady . But fearing I do n't deserve her is a way of underestimating myself . As much as I deserve --I deserve Portia ! By birth I deserve her . In terms of wealth , talents , and upbringing , and especially love , I deserve her . What if I went no further and chose this one ? But let 's see once more what the gold one says : " He who chooses me will get what many men want . " That 's Portia ! The whole world wants her . They come from the four corners of the earth to kiss this shrine and see this living , breathing saint . Princes travel across deserts and the vast wilderness of Arabia to come see the beautiful Portia . The wide ocean does n't prevent them from coming to see her -- they travel across it as if it were a little stream . One of these three boxes contains her lovely picture . Could the lead one contain it ? No , it 'd be a sin to think such a low thought . Lead 's too crass to hold her . Is she enclosed in silver , which is ten times less valuable than gold ? Oh , what a sinful thought ! Nobody ever set a gem like her in a worse setting than gold . They have a coin in England stamped with the figure of an angel , but that 's just engraved on the surface .
No , he 's in Florence .
It 's about you . I 'm not bringing any declarations of war or demands for cash . I 'm coming in peace .
You should get some distilled carduus benedictus and put it on your chest . It 's the only way to cure a sudden faintness .
and grab the Turk by the beard ? Shall we not ? What do you say , my fair fleur - de - lys ?
In God 's name , who are you ?
Honestly , I did n't see it , but I felt it in her hot breath .
What should I call you when you 're a man ?
Not bad ; you might accomplish something . Who are your parents ?
Excellent , good .
Iago , I know you 're fond of Cassio and are downplaying this for his benefit . Cassio , I love you , but you 're never again going to be one of my officers . --
Make the arrangements , and I 'll do it . Do this carefully , and I will reward you with a thousand gold coins .
wo n't count ; he wo n't be able to distinguish them from the bad .
If he were dead , what would happen to me ?
Do n't slander me , Douglas . I swear on my life -- and I 'll prove it with my life -- that if I 'm roused to fight through thoughtful , careful consideration , I 'm just as unafraid as you , my lord , or any Scotsman alive . In tomorrow 's battle , we 'll see which one of us is afraid .
A person who merely follows the orders of the best man , the man most worthy of service .
Give us a quick answer . Can you accept Paris 's love ?
Just as you go , I find the courage to talk to you . Evil spirit , I want to talk some more . Boy , Lucius ! Varrus ! Claudio ! Sirs , awake ! Claudio !
That 's for sure . Unless you think several inches of fat over your ribs makes you " bare-boned . " But hurry up , sirrah : Percy is already at the battlefield .
That 's because your soul is paying attention to the music . Take a wild herd of animals , or young untrained colts , leaping around like crazy , roaring and neighing loudly , which they have to do because it 's in their blood -- but if they happen to hear a trumpet , or any kind of music , they all stand still . Sweet music makes their wild eyes peaceful . That 's why the poet Ovid wrote that the great musician Orpheus could make
You will tolerate him . What , little man ? I say you will . What the --Am I the boss here or you ? What the --You wo n't tolerate him ! God help me ! You 'll start a riot among my guests ! There will be chaos ! It will be your fault , you 'll be the rabble - rouser !
You 're acting stupid , Casca , and you lack the quick wits that a Roman should have -- or else you do n't use them . You go pale , you stare , and you act in awe of the strange disturbance in the heavens . But if you thought about the real reason for all these fires , all these gliding ghosts , for why birds and animals abandon their natural behavior , why old men , fools , and children make predictions , why all sorts of things have departed from the usual course of their natures and become monstrosities , then you 'd understand that heaven had them act this way so they would serve as frightening warnings of an unnatural state to come . Right this minute , Casca , I could name a man who 's just like this dreadful night . A man who thunders , throws lightning , splits open graves , and roars like the lion in the Capitol .
Good morning , father .
Have you come from Bellario 's office in Padua ?
Go hang yourself , you stinking badger !
Make sure you behave honorably . Do n't go too far with her . If you let yourself get stirred up , you 'll forget your promise of good behavior . Calm yourself down or you 'll forget your vow .
He 's married to Octavia , madam .
It 's over here .
It 's great to hear from him . I knew him to be a good fencer . How 's the good knight doing ? And , if you do n't mind my asking , how 's his wife ?
How many times will Caesar bleed again in show , though he now lies at the base of Pompey 's statue , as worthless as dust !
But it has bay windows that are as transparent as stone walls , and the upper windows facing south-north are as clear as coal . But you 're still complaining of darkness and a bad view ?
Let me go , I say .
Why , you are king , your highness .
He looks humbler than he used to .
A herald , a herald !
Get over it . I wo n't give up this child for all of Fairyland . His mother was one of my worshippers , and we always used to gossip together at night in India , sitting together by the ocean and watching the merchant ships sailing on the ocean . We used to laugh to see the sails fill up with wind so that they looked like they had big , pregnant bellies , as if the wind had gotten them pregnant . She would imitate them -- since she was already pregnant with the little boy -- and she would go sailing over the land herself to go get me little presents , and come back carrying gifts like she was a ship coming back from a voyage . But since she was a mortal , she died giving birth to that boy , and for her sake I 'm raising him and will not give him up .
And hello to you , my little wench .
She can , she can . She 's been greased with so many bribes that she 's waterproof . We thieve in complete safety ; we 've got a potion that makes us invisible .
How are you doing , my pretty lady ?
The Archdeacon has divided the land into three very equal parts . All of England southeast of the Trent and Severn rivers goes to me .
Perhaps , if I decide to let you .
What 's happening on the battlefield ?
You 're doing the right thing . Good night , lieutenant . I 've got to go to the guard tower .
The King himself . And it pains me , Douglas , that you ran into so many of my shadows , and not me . I have two sons on the field , looking for Percy and for you . But , since you were lucky enough to come upon me , I 'll fight you myself . Defend yourself .
Our jailers will shrivel up with old age before they make us cry again . We 'll watch them starve to death first . Come on .
Yes , she did tell us .
I do n't know how much your superiors cost us , but you , like a generous man , gave yourself away for free , and I thank you for it .
Are you always going to be like this ? You 're an ungrateful slob who 's only fit to live in the mountains , in caves far from civilized people where you wo n't ever need good manners ! Get out of my sight ! --Dear Cesario , please do n't be offended . --Get out of here , you barbarian !
Go with me to the tomb .
You are the only man I have avoided . But go away now . I 'm already guilty of killing your whole family .
An Englishman ?
No , sir .
No , it was n't .
How do you know ?
Time , you thwart my dreadful plans . Unless a person does something the second he thinks of it , he 'll never get a chance to do it . From now on , as soon as I decide to do something I 'm going to act immediately . In fact , I 'll start following up my thoughts with actions right now . I 'll raid Macduff 's castle , seize the town of Fife , and kill his wife , his children , and anyone else unfortunate enough to stand in line for his inheritance . No more foolish talk . I will do this deed before I lose my sense of purpose . But no more spooky visions ! --Where are the messengers ? Come , bring me to them .
Well , we almost fought and then realized that we had reached the seventh cause .
It 's unbelievable .
It 's time to leave .
Royal seductress ! She lured Julius Caesar into her bed , he made love to her , and she bore his child .
Sir , you have a very slow , rambling wit .
Do n't attack by land . Keep the army together . Do n't provoke them to battle until we have finished at sea . Do n't exceed your orders as written here .
Authority radiated from his face , and his presence brought knowledge and order to the people of earth .
But who is this ? My father , led by a poor peasant ? Oh , life is full of surprises ! We age and die because they wear us out .
That wo n't be anytime soon .
Who 's in there ? Hey , open the door !
They lie in bed while they dream about the truth .
I 'll do it right away .
Then it must be Banquo 's .
What 's your name ?
Yes , but I know --
Sir Toby , that 's a lie .
Disliking something is n't the same thing as hating it .
It 's him ! Brave Iago , how honest and trustworthy you are ! You even went as far as murder to help your friend in his misfortune . You teach me how I should act .
Well then , goodbye . Stay in the dark . I 'll only admit that you 're sane when you agree with Pythagoras and hesitate to kill a bird because it might contain your grandmother 's soul . Goodbye .
I wish they 'd fight in fire or in the air . We 'd meet them there too . But here 's the plan : our army will stay with us on the hills by the city . Orders have been given to the navy and they 've left port . We 'll be able to analyze and direct the battle better from the hills .
I do n't think you 've got much of a reason to love me . But to tell you the truth , reason and love have very little to do with each other these days . It 's too bad some mutual friend of theirs does n't introduce them . Ha , ha ! No , I 'm just kidding .
Now I 'll tell you so you do n't have to ask . My master is the great and rich Capulet , and if you do n't belong to the house of Montague , please come and drink a cup of wine . Have a nice day !
And the time has n't come yet for us to turn our deep grief into action .
Here comes the little villain herself .
The gold I gave Dromio is safe and sound at the Centaur , and the inn host says that Dromio has left and is looking for me . I have n't spoken to him since I sent him away from the marketplace earlier . Here he comes .
Ha , ha , ha ! Well , gentlemen , good night . And if anything important happens , find me and let me know . Keep each other 's secrets and your own . Good night . Come , friend .
He 'd better not speak badly of Brutus here .
How many times have I had to live through cursed times of violent struggle ? My husband lost his life to get the crown , and my sons ' fortunes have been tossed up and down , leaving me to rejoice over their victories and weep over their losses . And once one of them achieved the throne and had taken care of domestic quarrels , they made war among themselves . It 's a preposterous outrage . Let it end , or let me die so I wo n't have to watch any more of it .
Please , put down your knife and stop kidding around .
Just a second , sir !
Away , away , be gone .
What does your grace want ?
Why " let it strike " ?
So you finally find me worthy of your attentions .
Be patient for a bit longer while I go over the terms of our agreement . You say that if I bring Rosalind here , you will give her to Orlando in marriage ?
None of us .
May heaven save us from indecent thoughts ! Alexas ! Come and tell his fortune . Let him marry a woman he ca n't satisfy , dear Isis , I pray ! And then let her die , and give him someone worse . Then let her die , and let her replacement be even worse . And so on until the last one , who is unfaithful with at least fifty other men and laughs at him until he dies . I beg you to grant my prayer , good Isis , even though it means you deny me something more important for myself . Good Isis , I beg you !
My lord and lady , it 's now our turn , who have been watching as our dreams came true . Now we can shout , " Congratulations , congratulations , my lord and lady ! "
If I answered that question , I 'd be making confession to you .
I was not angry since I came to France until this instant . Take a trumpet , herald . Ride out to the horsemen on that hill . If they seek battle with us , have them come down or else clear the field . The sight of them is offensive . If they 'll do neither , we 'll come to them and make them fly like stones shot from powerful slings . We 'll also cut the throats of any prisoners we have . Not a man of them that we shall take shall know our mercy . Go and tell them this .
" Informed them " ? Do you understand what I 'm saying , man ?
Indeed , Hero herself can ! You 've stained your virtue with your own actions . What man were you talking to at your window last night , between the hours of midnight and one ? If you 're a virgin , you 'll answer this question .
Where 's Monsieur Mustardseed ?
Are you still so cruel ?
And I wo n't be there either . --Edmund , I 'm told you 've acted like a true son to your father .
Would you like to hear some music , my sweet love ?
Oh , it 's as easy as lying . Just put your fingers and thumb over the holes and blow into it , and it 'll produce the most moving music . Here , the holes are here .
Oh , God , sir , here comes a dish I hate . I ca n't stand tongue .
Write to him immediately . Hurry .
By God , I think it would be easy to jump up and grab honor off of the moon 's pale face , or to dive into the deepest ocean and pull up honor by its hair . Then the man who rescues honor can wear her glory alone , without rivals . To hell with sharing the glory !
Edward the duke of York , the earl of Suffolk , Sir Richard Ketly , Davy Gam , esquire . No one else of name , and only twenty-five other men . Oh , God , your power was with us . What happened here is your doing alone , not ours . When was there ever before so great a loss on one side and so little on the other , in the ordinary and equal clash of battle ? Take credit , God , for it is no one 's doing but yours .
I put those wedding sheets on your bed , as you asked .
And brief , good mother --I 'm in a hurry .
Catesby , fly to the duke .
Yes , sir . Here 's the bill from the blacksmith for horseshoes and plow blades .
Please go away , both of you . I 'll speak to him now . Oh , please let me .
Oh , please , Prince Dauphin ! You are completely wrong about this king . Talk to the ambassadors who 've just come back : ask them how majestically he responded to their message , how well supplied he was with good advisors , how restrained in expressing his displeasure , and , moreover , how terrifyingly firm he was in his resolve . You 'll discover that his youthful follies were like the persona that Lucius Junius Brutus adopted to deceive Tarquin -- cloaking wisdom in folly the way gardeners cover the most delicate roots with manure when they first sprout up .
Should a God disguise himself as a bull ? That 's quite a degradation . Well , Jove did it . And should a prince disguise himself as an apprentice bartender and transform into something so lowly ? Yes , I will : in every undertaking , the ends must match the means . Follow me , Ned .
Hail !
Good afternoon , my dear lord !
Hey , Mountain , hey !
You mean do a curtsy ?
If they have done this thing , my noble lord --
We 'll perform all the holy rites . Let Non nobis and Te Deum be sung , and let the dead be buried properly . Then on to Calais and from there to England . There have never been more fortunate men than we to return from France .
She 's grieving too much over the death of Tybalt . So I have n't had the chance to talk to her about love . Romantic love does n't happen when people are in mourning . Now , sir , her father thinks it 's dangerous that she allows herself to become so sad . He 's being smart by rushing our marriage to stop her from crying . She cries too much by herself . If she had someone to be with her , she would stop crying . Now you know the reason for the rush .
Are you gone like that , my love , my lord ? Yes , my husband , my friend ! I must hear from you every day in the hour . In a minute there are many days . Oh , by this count I 'll be many years older before I see my Romeo again .
Why ?
Sir Thomas Erpingham .
Yes , I 've heard the same thing and sort of believe it . But look , morning is breaking beyond that hill in the east , turning the sky red . Let 's interrupt our watch and go tell young Hamlet what we 've seen tonight . I 'm sure this ghost that 's so silent with us will speak to him . Do n't you agree that we owe it to him to tell him about this , out of duty and love ?
My God , she ca n't be a Jew , she 's too nice !
In my youth I loved , I loved , And I thought it was very sweet To set -- ohh -- the date for -- ahh -- my duty Oh , I thought it -- ahh -- was not right .
What do I see here ?
Before your sentence has been completed ? Do n't say anything else .
Yes , or to wear cosmetics ? I hear what they say about him for doing that .
Cousins , you all have work to do . --Oh , I beg your pardon . Come with me now , and help me out . --Dear cousin , please be careful during this busy time .
This ca n't be a trick . They spoke with great seriousness , and they have Hero 's testimony . They seem to pity the lady . It seems her love is stretched to the limit . She loves me ? Well , that love must be returned ! I hear how I 'm criticized . They say I 'll be smug if I find out she loves me . They also say she 'd rather die than give any sign of her feelings . I never thought I 'd marry . I ca n't appear to be proud . People who discover their faults and can then change them are lucky indeed . They say the lady is beautiful ; it 's true , I 've seen it myself . And virtuous ; that 's true , I ca n't disprove that . And smart , except that she loves me . That may not be any proof of her intelligence , but I swear it wo n't be evidence of her stupidity -- for I 'm going to be horribly in love with her ! People might tease me here and there , since I attacked marriage for so long . But do n't tastes change ? A man can love a dish when he is young that he hates when he turns old . Will quips and clever remarks and scathing written words keep a man from getting what his heart desires ? No ! The world needs to be populated . When I said that I 'd die as a bachelor , I just meant that I did n't think I 'd live until I got married . Here comes Beatrice . By God ! She 's a beautiful lady . I think I sense some signs of love in her .
It was a friar in robes of gray , who walked along the road one day : -- Stop , you moron ! You 're twisting my foot ! Take that , and see you do a better job with the other one . Be happy , Kate ! --Bring me some water ! Where 's my spaniel Troilus ? Hey boy , go tell my cousin Ferdinand to get in here .
Hello , Roderigo !
Into the Welsh lady 's bed !
But where did this happen ?
Why Dover? --Let him answer that question first .
That 's no answer , you heartless man . It does n't excuse your cruel behavior .
Here , noble lord . What is your wish with regard to her ?
What will we say is our excuse for being here ? Or should we enter without apologizing ?
Thanks , Tranio . That 's good advice . Now if only Biondello would get here , we could find a nice place to stay where the friends we 'll make here in Padua could visit us . Wait ! Who are all these people ?
Should I tell you why ?
You 'll be delighted by young women as fresh as spring flowers . Look at anyone you like , and choose whatever woman seems best to you . Once you see a lot of girls , you might not think my daughter 's the best anymore . Come along with me .
No , master , I 've been changed in both mind and body .
They 're just fine , my dear madam . But I 'm sorry --I 'm not allowed to let you visit them . The king has strictly forbidden it .
That 's true , it 's your beauty 's fault . I wish I had a fault like that !
When evil is dominant , death soon kills the body like cancer .
He and his master are n't exactly friends --
Very well , my supreme lord -- that 's what I have to call you now .
I 'm off . Around three or four o'clock , look for news from the meeting hall .
You were damaged goods before I met you . Ha ! Did I desert my bed in Rome , passing up the chance to have a legitimate family with a jewel of a woman , in order to be deceived by one who wastes her favors on servants ?
Goodbye , my Desdemona . I 'll come see you right away .
He 's calling us back . My pride fell when my fortunes did ; I 'll ask him what he wants . --Did you call us , sir ? Sir , you wrestled well and conquered more than just your enemies .
Be quiet and hold back your remarks of outrage , until we can clear up these questions . We want to know how it started and what really happened . And then I 'll be the leader of pain , and maybe I 'll lead you as far as death . In the meantime , hold on , and be patient . Bring forth the men under suspicion .
My dear Gloucester !
Go ahead .
Lysander 's got a way with words . I would certainly be rude and shameful if I had implied that you were a liar . But please , darling , sleep a little farther away so we can behave properly . It 's only proper for a well-behaved bachelor and a well-behaved girl to be physically separated like this . Stay away for now , and good night , my sweet friend . I hope your love for me remains this strong for your entire life !
Catesby , we 'll be there soon . --Lords , will you come with me ?
Sir , you go too far ! I will not stand for it !
Goodbye , Mr. Traveler . Make sure to keep up your foreign accent , wear strange clothes , belittle all the benefits you receive from your native land and fall out of love with it , and nearly curse God for making you look like the Englishman you are , or else I 'll never believe you 've paddled in a gondola in a Venetian canal , as you say you have .
Then do n't move while I act out my prayer .
Oh , did he ? I order you to come with me .
Sister , calm down . All of us have reason to mourn the dimming of our shining star the king . But no good comes from all this wailing . Oh , mother , forgive me . I did n't see you there . On my knee , I humbly ask your blessing .
Then you would have to go beyond heaven , beyond earth .
They carried him uncovered in the coffin , Hey non nonny , nonny , hey nonny . And tears poured down into his grave . Good - bye , honey .
Yes , he 's good at it when he 's in the mood , and so am I. He 's practiced more , but it comes more naturally to me .
I do n't expect him to answer for me , and yet I 'm determined to fight vigorously for him .
She 's dead to me . She 's been tricked and stolen from me , enchanted by black magic spells . She must 've
I go with all my heart .
Let 's keep marching since we 're prepared to fight . Even if we do n't fight foreign enemies , we 'll beat down these rebels at home .
Sir , this is the truth : you and the rest -- all the people who have ever talked about her -- have all been wrong . If she seems fierce , it 's for a reason . She 's not obstinate but gentle as the dove , not high-strung but peaceful as the morning . She has the patience of a Griselda and the modesty of Rome 's Lucrece . In short , we 've gotten along so well that Sunday is our wedding day .
Who did this , Sir Andrew ?
What 's that noise ?
A favorite dish of mine .
Just like the rabbit , who lives where she is born .
What , just because they kissed in private ?
Let me love him because he deserves it , and you can love him because I do . Look , here comes the duke .
That 's how all the women in her profession are . As soon as they 're calm -- and not in someone 's bed -- they get sick .
I hope you 're right .
If I could run into him , ma'am , I 'd prove which side I 'm on .
I buy myself a thousand beatings a year if I buy a rope .
I will .
Well , let 's hope you stay in that noble frame of mind .
This and other things , your Highness : even more unsettling and unwelcome news has arrived from the north . On Holy Cross Day , the heroic young Harry Percy -- who we know as Hotspur -- fought at Holmeden against Archibald , Earl of Douglas , that brave and battle - proven Scotsman . The two of them fought a long and bloody battle there , judging by the way the guns were firing . The messenger who brought the news left when the battle was at its height , so he could n't say for sure who had won .
Yes , she 's young and tender .
Look , she 's spotted him with those sweet eyes of hers .
kissed me hard , as if he were trying to suck my lips off . Then he put his leg over mine , and sighed and kissed me , and said , " Damn fate for giving you to the Moor ! "
But if you decide not to marry me , you 'll marry this faithful shepherd instead ?
Madam .
Where 's your deputy ? Is he a strong deputy ? Will he rise to the occasion ?
I beg your pardon , sir . A soldier has no need for a wife ; he is well enough accommodated .
I wish I could live longer . I want to do a little good despite my evil nature . Go quickly -- hurry -- to the castle , for I 've given orders to have Lear and Cordelia killed . Hurry , send someone immediately !
You 've made up your mind , then ?
Oh , how beautiful he is even when he 's angry and full of contempt ! A murderer can hide his guilt longer than someone in love can hide her love . Love shines brightly and ca n't be hidden . Cesario , I swear by the spring roses , by virginity , honor , truth , and everything , I swear I love you . I love you so much that I ca n't hide my passion for you , as clever as I am . Do n't assume that because I 'm pursuing you there 's no reason to pursue me . Put two and two together and realize that asking for love is good , but getting it without asking is much better .
Enough , cousin .
Let the drums beat . Prove your right to me by defeating any challenger .
Forever and a day .
Not dead , I hope .
Darn it , if I 'd guessed he was so brave and such a good swordsman , I never would have challenged him . I 'll give him my gray horse Capilet if he forgets the whole thing .
You 're talking to Casca , not to some smiling , two-faced tattletale . Say no more . Shake my hand . If you 're joining together to right these wrongs , I 'll go as far as any one of you .
Really , I 'm only pretending to be him .
Be quiet , you mumbling fool ! Say your serious things at lunch with your gossiping friends . We do n't need to hear it .
Who 's his lieutenant , do you know ?
This is it , for now . Then , in a week or two , I 'll continue on as far as Rome , then on to Tripoli , God willing .
I 'm afraid you 'll come to me again for ransom .
Good friends , think of this as nothing more than a strange habit . It 's nothing else . Too bad it 's spoiling our pleasure tonight .
I did n't think you could even be so angry .
I meant a crowbar . Get going already .
The Dauphin really wants it to be morning .
A good plan , warrior king . I found this pinned to my tent this morning .
Go find out the news .
Sure I can , father .
Come on , sir .
Is this a time to joke and fool around ?
Why are you locking her away because of this fiend from hell , Signor Baptista ? Why does the one daughter have to be punished for the other 's mouth ?
So then the Poles wo n't be willing to defend it .
Do n't question the foolish haste of it all -- or her poverty or our short time together or the abruptness of my courtship or the abruptness of her consent -- but say with me , " I love Aliena . " And say with me that she loves me . Agree to this match , so we can enjoy each other . It will be to your advantage , because I 'll leave our father 's house and all his property to you , while I live and die a shepherd here in the forest .
Caesar , I will . In fact , I 'll be so near that your best friends will wish I 'd been further away .
This is the strangest thing I ever saw in my life .
Oh , I 've been killed !
Exactly like that .
Here comes the furious Tybalt back again .
Fierce civil war will paralyze all of Italy . Blood and destruction will be so common and familiar that mothers will merely smile when their infants are cut to pieces by the hands of war . People 's capacity for sympathy will grow tired and weak from the sheer quantity of cruel deeds . And Caesar 's ghost , searching for revenge with the goddess Ate by his side , just up from Hell , will cry in the voice of a king , " Havoc ! " and unleash the dogs of war . This foul deed will stink up to the sky with men 's corpses , which will beg to be buried .
Venice has made Cassio governor here on Cyprus .
It 's always like this in times of change . By some sort of deep instinct , we always know when danger is approaching , just as we know that a storm is coming when the sea swells . But leave it all to God . Where are you all off to ?
Oh , no . Duke Frederick 's daughter , Celia , grew up with Rosalind , and Celia loves her cousin so much that she would have either followed her into exile or died of grief . Rosalind has stayed at court , where Duke Frederick loves her like his own daughter . No two women ever loved each other like they do .
You devil !
He says he 'll come back right away . He asked me to go to bed and to send you away .
Sure , sweetheart . You catch us by the chains and the jewels , and then you steal them from us .
Why are you here ?
Surely , my cousin has a duty to please her father . But if the husband her father chooses is n't handsome , she should sweetly tell her father that she will please herself -- with another one .
Let him thank me , who helped him get there . He 's better suited to be there than here .
Who are you ? Why do you hide in the darkness and listen to my private thoughts ?
Oh , do n't ask me why I " need " them ! Even the poorest beggars have some meager possessions they do n't really " need . " If you allow people no more than what they absolutely need to survive , then a human life is no better than an animal 's . You 're a well-dressed lady . If you dressed only to stay warm , you would n't need these gorgeous clothes you 're wearing-- which do n't keep you warm at all . If you want to talk about true needs , what I really need is patience . Oh , gods , give me patience ! You see me here , gods , a grieving old man , as wretched in his grief as he is in his old age . If you 're the ones setting my daughters against me , do n't let me be foolish enough to take it lying down . Give me noble anger , and do n't let any womanly tears fall down my
Benedick , Beatrice praised your wit the other day . I said you had a fine wit . " True , " she said , " a fine little one . " " No , " I said , " a huge wit . " " Right , " she said , " a hugely awful one . " " No , " I said , " he has a good wit . " " Exactly , " she said , " it 's good and mild ; it does n't hurt anyone . " " No , " I said , " Benedick is wise . " " He is certainly , " she said , " a wise gentleman . " " No , " I said , " he can speak many languages : " " I can believe that , " she said , " because he swore one thing to me on Monday night and took it back on Tuesday morning . He spoke two languages then . " She turned all your virtues into vices just about an hour ago . But in the end she sighed and admitted you were the handsomest man in Italy .
I 'll tell him the news . Oh , here comes the general --Brutus has been caught , Brutus is taken , my lord .
I swear , sir , you did not eat at home .
Absolutely not . You 'll take the mustard or you 'll get no beef from Grumio .
I 'll gladly sit and hear her sing . By the time she 's done , I think our documents will be prepared .
Oh , but she 'll keep her word .
Officers , what crime have these men committed ?
You 're on your own now . The soldiers were all drafted in my name , and now they are discharged in my name .
Listen , listen to what I say : whoever strikes first , I 'll run him through with my sword , as sure as I 'm a soldier .
What I mean is , if they make us angry we 'll pull out our swords .
Yes , that 's my husband 's name .
Something about Hamlet .
What awful thing did Brutus ask of you ?
I think it 's good morning , is n't it ?
Who 's the ruler here ?
No , Cassius , no . Do n't imagine that I 'll ever allow myself to return to Rome in chains . My mind is too great for that . But today , the work that March 15th began must end , and I do n't know if we 'll meet again . Therefore , accept my everlasting farewell . Forever and forever , farewell , Cassius ! If we meet again , then we 'll smile . If not , then this parting was well done .
Please forgive me if I 'm mistaken , my lord -- but I ca n't keep quiet when I think you 're being insulted .
Sir , I have no future ahead of me .
Yes . And you knew I was there , right ? It 's just like when you ran away at Gad 's Hill : you knew I was the one who beat you , and you made up some story just to irritate me .
You can do whatever you want as long as it 's socially appropriate .
Hey , daughter ! Are you awake ?
I 've been crying to myself just now , or I would 've said the same thing . Dear gods , bless this couple , since you 're the ones who have shown us the path that led us here .
You rebels ! Enemies of the peace ! Men who turn their weapons against their own neighbors --They wo n't listen to me?- -You there ! You men , you beasts , who satisfy your anger with fountains of each others ' blood ! I 'll have you tortured if you do n't put down your swords and listen to your angry prince . Three times now riots have broken out in this city , all because of a casual word from you , old Capulet and Montague . Three times the peace has been disturbed in our streets , and Verona 's old citizens have had to take off their dress clothes and pick up rusty old spears to part you . If you ever cause a disturbance on our streets again , you 'll pay for it with your lives . Everyone else , go away for now . You , Capulet , come with me . Montague , this afternoon come to old Free - town , the court where I deliver judgments , and I 'll tell you what else I want from you . As for the rest of you , I 'll say this once more : go away or be put to death .
No , go ahead and take my life . Do n't pardon that . You take my house away when you take the money I need for upkeep . You take my life when you take away my means of making a living .
Give me your hand ; you 've been truly honest -- so have you and you -- and you-- you too . You have all served me well , and kings are your peers .
What wicked magician has conjured up this devil to interrupt this sacred burial rite ?
Do you like him , Sir John ?
Okay . But I 'm afraid they 'll be too tough for us .
Then the window lets day in , and life goes out the window .
I will avenge whatever I believe is wrong . And I 'll believe whatever I 'm sure is true . And I 'll put right whatever I can when the time comes . What you just said may perhaps be true . This tyrant , whose mere name is so awful it hurts us to say it , was once considered an honest man . You were one of his favorites . He has n't done anything to harm you yet . I 'm inexperienced , but maybe you 're planning to win Macbeth 's favor by betraying me to him . It would be smart to offer someone poor and innocent like me as a sacrificial lamb to satisfy an angry god like Macbeth .
Oh horrible ! A halfpenny 's worth of bread against this enormous amount of wine ? Hang onto everything else you found ; we 'll read it when we have time . Let him sleep there till tomorrow . I 'll go to court in the morning . We 're all off to the wars , and you will have honorable positions . I 'll put this fat rogue in charge of an infantry company , and a quarter mile 's march will be the end of him . The money we stole will be repaid with interest . Meet me early in the morning ; and with that , good morning , Peto .
Thank you . I wish you the same . Goodbye , Jessica .
What work can you do ?
How can you ever hope for mercy for yourself , when you do n't give any now ?
" Jackie of Norfolk , do n't be too bold , for Dick your master has been betrayed . " Something the enemy devised . Go , gentleman , every man to his command . Do n't let babbling dreams frighten us -- conscience is just a word that cowards use to intimidate the strong . The strong fight we put on will be our conscience , our swords will be our law .
Yes , I will ; there 's no doubt about it . The King said he would not pay ransom for Mortimer . He forbid me from speaking of Mortimer . But I 'll find him when he 's sleeping , and I 'll shout " Mortimer ! " into his ears . No ; I 'll get a bird and teach it to say nothing but " Mortimer , " and I 'll give it to the King to anger him forever .
She provoked me with her lying mouth , accusing me of crimes I did n't commit .
Ha , ha , ha !
No , my lord .
Does that necessarily mean you should love his son ? By that kind of logic , I should hate Orlando , since my father hates his father . But I do n't hate Orlando .
Love is merely a form of insanity , and I tell you , lovers deserve the nuthouse just like crazy people do . The only reason they do n't get punished and cured is that the disease is so commonplace that the nuthouse nurses are usually suffering from it , too . But I promise it can be cured with some guidance .
Take your time .
It must be a message about something horrible , since you deliver it so rudely . Tell me what it 's about .
Come , uncle Exeter , enter Harfleur . Stay there and fortify it well against the French . Deal with them all mercifully on my behalf , dear uncle . Meanwhile , with winter coming on and sickness growing among our troops , we 'll withdraw to Calais . Tonight in Harfleur we will be your guest ; tomorrow we 'll march on .
Hello , mortal !
Oh , deadly sin ! Oh , rude and unthankful boy ! You committed a crime that is punishable by death , but our kind Prince took sympathy on you and ignored the law when he substituted banishment for death . This is kind mercy , and you do n't realize it .
Dead shepherd , now I understand what you meant when you said , " You 've never loved until you 've fallen in love at first sight . "
It 's meant in good will . I tell you , you can use it to get your shoes fixed . Come , why be so hesitant ? Your shoes are in pretty bad shape . It 's a good shilling , I promise you . If not , I 'll get another one for you .
The only way is to kill Caesar . I have no personal reason to strike at him -- only the best interest of the people . He wants to be crowned . The question is , how would being king change him ? Evil can come from good , just as poisonous snakes tend to come out into the open on bright sunny days -- which means we have to walk carefully . If we crown him , I have to admit we 'd be giving him the power to do damage .
As good a reason as any . So go ahead and cry .
Did my father 's godson try to kill you ? The one whom my father named , your son Edgar ?
My dear , let 's go inside and wait for them to arrive . But I guess it does n't matter . Why should we go in?- -Stephano , tell the household staff that your mistress is about to arrive , and bring some musicians outside here .
No one admires speed more than the lazy .
I agree with your honor that he 's a good - for - nothing , but God forbid that a good-for-nothing should be denied a favor when his friend asks for one on his behalf . An honest man can speak for himself , but a good-for-nothing ca n't . I 've worked for you for eight years , sir . If I ca n't get you to rule in favor of a good -
You are now the sole lord of the entire world . I ca n't explain my cause very clearly . I must admit to having the weaknesses that all women are accused of .
What 's the reason for this horrible shouting ? What 's the matter ?
Thank you , madam .
Falstaff , where have you been all this time ? When everything is over , that 's when you start . This habit of laziness of yours will bust a gallows to bits one of these days , mark my words .
If I can believe my eyes , this is a fine sight to see .
Referee !
Sirrah , if they do n't run into some highway robbers today , you can have my neck .
Your father ! Why , you scoundrel ! Your father is a sailmaker in Bergamo .
Oh , dear . If he is n't cut down in his tracks right now , we 'll see willful adultery and murder committed .
Are you making fun of me ?
Richard , do n't you think this chattering little York was encouraged to taunt you by his sneaky mother in that outrageous way ?
Oh , what a wise judge ! --Pay attention , Jew . A wise judge !
If you sit down , I 'll carry your logs a while . Please give me that . I 'll take it over to the pile .
There 's one that shows Io as a maid , before she was turned into a cow , in which Jupiter tricks and takes her . It 's so realistic , it seems to be happening right before your eyes .
What are you doing ? Stop , for God 's sake ! Well , if you do n't , then I 'm out of here .
You ca n't trust all the rumors . It 's time to reassess the situation . The British troops are coming near .
Yes , I do .
Alexander the Great .
Madam , I will .
Good-bye then , until the time I see you dressed in your battle gear , which will suit you both very well .
Hero , the daughter and heir of Leonato .
To my sick soul , every detail looks like an omen of disaster to come . Guilt makes you so full of stupid suspicions that you give yourself away because you 're trying so hard not to .
Quiet ! Here comes my cousin , reading something ; step aside .
I wish I 'd never seen her !
Farewell , farewell .
And then it acted startled , like a guilty person caught by the law . I 've heard that the rooster awakens the god of day with its trumpetlike crowing , and makes all wandering ghosts , wherever they are , hurry back to their hiding places . We 've just seen proof of that .
Thank God , thank God ! Is it true , is it true ?
Please , no more .
But here 's an old , true saying : " If you want to win France , start with Scotland . " For when the eagle England leaves her nest to seek prey , the weasel Scot always comes sneaking around to suck dry her princely eggs and , like the mouse when the cat 's away , destroy more than she can actually eat .
So far the witches have told me two things that came true , so it seems like this will culminate in my becoming king . Thank you , gentlemen . This supernatural temptation does n't seem like it can be a bad thing , but it ca n't be good either . If it 's a bad thing , why was I promised a promotion that turned out to be true ? Now I 'm the thane of Cawdor , just like they said I would be . But if this is a good thing , why do I find myself thinking about murdering King Duncan , a thought so horrifying that it makes my hair stand on end and my heart pound inside my chest ? The dangers that actually threaten me here and now frighten me less than the horrible things I 'm imagining .
No , you 're just reminding me of something I 've also noticed . I 've felt neglected recently , but I decided that it was more likely that I was being hypersensitive than that they were intentionally unkind . I 'll look into it further . But where 's my fool ? I have n't seen him for two days .
I 'm toying with his despair to cure him of it .
" Little . "
Nobody was hurt in the slightest . Even their clothes are unstained , and look fresher than before the storm . I 've separated them into groups around the island , just as you ordered . I sent the king 's son off by himself to a faraway nook on the island , where he 's sitting now sighing , with his arms crossed like this .
Do n't beat your brains out over it . You ca n't make a slow donkey run by beating it . The next time someone asks you this riddle , say " a gravedigger . " The houses he makes last till Judgment Day . Now go and get me some booze .
Has Banquo left the court ?
Either be calm and polite or I 'll drown you out with the music of war .
What did he carry , please ?
They do n't want you to go out today . They pulled out the guts of the sacrificed animal and could n't find its heart .
Sirrah , the Prince and Poins will be here soon . They 're going to put on a couple of our jackets and aprons . Sir John ca n't know it 's them . Bardolph came and told me .
He kisses her .
I do n't have anywhere to go , so I do n't need to see . When I could see , I did n't always see clearly . I made
Yes sir , I 'm fairly witty .
Stay here at your own risk . I 'm going on alone .
Madam , your mother wants to talk to you .
The people are frightening me . They 've seen terrible omens : children who seem to have supernatural fathers , and gruesomely deformed infants . The weather is in disarray , as if the calendar discovered some months were fast asleep , and decided to skip over them .
I do n't want it ; keep it for the hangman . I know you worship the patron saint of highway robbery , as much as a godless man like you worships anything .
That 's fifty-five years ago .
Yes , be content , good Touchstone .
Then take this man into your service , Octavius , for he did the final service to my master .
Knock , knock , knock ! Who 's there , in the devil 's name ? Maybe it 's a farmer who killed himself because grain was cheap . You 're here just in time ! I hope you brought some handkerchiefs ; you 're going to sweat a lot here .
To the Forest of Arden , to find your father .
I wish you and your scarred self had convinced me to wage our last battle on land .
Welcome , good Robin . Do you see this sweet sight ? Now I 'm starting to pity Titania for being so infatuated . I ran into her recently at the edge of the forest , looking for sweet presents for this hateful idiot , and I scolded her and argued with her . She had put a wreath of fresh , fragrant flowers around his hairy forehead , and the drops of dew that lay in the center of the flowers made the flowers look like they were crying with shame to be decorating the head of that ugly jackass . When I had taunted her as much as I wanted to , and she begged me very nicely to leave her alone , I asked her for the stolen Indian child . She said yes right away , and sent a fairy to bring him to my home in Fairyland . And now that I have the boy , I 'll undo the spell that makes her vision so disgustingly wrong . And , gentle Puck , take this transformed ass 's head off of the head of that Athenian man , so that when he wakes up at the same time as the rest of them do , they can all go back to Athens . They 'll only remember the events of tonight as a very unpleasant dream . But first I 'll release the fairy queen from the spell .
That 's a stupid answer ! What do you say , Hugh Rebeck ?
Villains , set down the corpse , or I 'll make a corpse of you .
I 'll give the first one , Pompey .
I 'll bet you a hundred marks , my Kate puts her flat on her back .
Good morning , sweet Hero .
Well , there 's going to be hilarity here ! What a great scheme !
Hail , King of Scotland !
Oh , you stupid Moor ! I found that handkerchief by accident and gave it to my husband . He 'd begged me to steal it many times .
I bought Bardolph at St. Paul 's Cathedral , and he 's buying me a horse in Smithfield . Now if he could just find me a wife in a whorehouse , I 'd be fully stocked with high-quality servants , horses , and wives .
You need to . I 'm lazy by nature .
Your father , sir . The dead king .
Oh Ratcliffe , I 'm afraid , I 'm afraid --
Someone else has the same name , but he 's a better man .
What is the significance of referring to this individual ?
Double meaning ! No , honestly , there 's no other meaning . I just meant that you should use some holy thistle . Maybe you think that I think you 're in love . No , by Our Lady , I 'm not such a fool to think what I please , and I do n't please to think what I can , and in fact I cannot think , even if I could think my heart right past thinking , that you are in love or that you will be in love or even that you can be in love . But Benedick was once an enemy of love as well , and now he 's become a real man . He swore that he 'd never get married , but now , despite his earlier protestations , he loves ungrudgingly . How we 're going to convert you I 'll never know . And yet I think you look with your eyes just like every other woman does .
Caesar , the clock has struck eight .
Is that how the law sees it ?
She 's well .
Lead on , and greet his highness . Sir , we 're on our way .
Your love says , like an honorable gentleman , who is courteous , kind , handsome , and , I believe , virtuous -- where is your mother ?
And you 're lying outside of it , so it 's not yours . As for me , I 'm not lying to you in it -- it 's really mine .
I do n't have any news to report , my lord .
Yes , he knew about it the whole time . Why do you ask ?
No more , no more .
Come , Ariel --I summon you with a thought . Thank you , Ariel . Come .
A soldier is just a tool , like his sword , unless he has your qualities , Ventidius . Are you going to write Antony about this ?
The king is staying up all night drinking and dancing . As he guzzles down his German wine , the musicians make a ruckus to celebrate his draining another cup .
Yes , mother , but I wish I had n't .
I have delivered some letters to his uncle , and he seemed very happy . He got so emotional that he actually looked like he was in pain .
Sir , you need a drink . When has anyone ever put you down like that .
We 've followed your commands , lord Caesar . You shall have hourly updates regarding the situation at sea . Pompey has a strong navy . All the people who only stayed with you out of fear are gathering at the port to join him , in the opinion he 's been treated unfairly .
What 's wrong , Hecate ? You look angry .
More or less .
Come on , boys , let 's divide up the spoils and then ride off before dawn . If the Prince and Poins are n't cowards , there 's no justice in the universe . Poins is about as brave as a duck .
You could 've done this without your beard and gown . He could n't see you .
I hope you go senile soon , sir , so you can become a more foolish fool ! Sir Toby would bet a fortune that I 'm not smart , but he would n't bet two cents that you 're not a fool .
I know you 're close to Cassio , but if you diverge from the truth in any way , you 're not a true soldier .
Come on , can I get you two to make up ? We have to go to France together : why should we cut each other 's throats ?
Even innocents cannot always escape disaster . May Egypt drown in the Nile and all good creatures turn into poisonous snakes . Call that servant back . Even though I 'm mad , I wo n't bite him . Call him !
Come , let us get back to praying . --Farewell , my cousin ; farewell , noble friends .
You wrong me even more , sir , by denying it . Consider how poorly this reflects on me .
Go find him . We wo n't touch a thing till you return .
If he 's caught , he 'll never make trouble for anyone again . Feel free to use my authority however you wish in order to apprehend him . --As for you , Edmund , you 've been so loyal and virtuous throughout this whole business . I 'd like you to work for me . I need people as trustworthy as you .
Did you praise him as well ?
Oh , that 's monstrous ! Monstrous !
But how will we keep it from being passed now , my lord ?
Good Peter , give her her fan to hide her face . Her fan is prettier than her face .
With her ?
I like this news , and when I have time I 'll read this and think about how to reply . Meanwhile , thank you for your efforts . Go relax now . Tonight we 'll have dinner . Welcome back !
I 'll send my prayers with him .
Oh ho ! Look at me now ! No less a person than Sir Toby , Lady Olivia 's own relative , is going to take care of me . This is just what the letter said . She 's sending him to me on purpose , so I can be rude to him just like she said in the letter . " Get rid of your low-class trapping , " she said . " Argue with a relative of mine like a nobleman , and be rude to servants . Talk about politics and affairs of state , and act free and independent . " And then she explains how to do it : I should have a serious face and dignified demeanor , well-modulated speech , acting like a distinguished gentleman and so on . I 've got her now , but I 've got God to thank for it ! And when she left just now , she said " Take care of this poor fellow here . " Fellow ! " Not " Malvolio , " not anything referring to my low station in life , but " fellow . " Everything 's going perfectly . Not the tiniest ounce , not the littlest insignificant amount of trouble or bad luck could ruin it -- what can I say ? Nothing can come between me and the fulfillment of all my hopes . Well , God is responsible for that , not me , and he deserves thanks .
Tell her to devise a plan to get out of her house and come to confession at the abbey this afternoon . At Friar Lawrence 's cell she can make confession and be married . Here is a reward for your efforts .
Be kind and polite to this gentleman . Follow him around . Leap and dance for him . Feed him apricots and blackberries , with purple grapes , green figs , and mulberries . Steal honey from the bumblebees , and make candles out of the bees ' wax . Light them with the light of glowworms , so my love will have light when he goes to bed and wakes up . Pluck off colorful butterfly wings , and use them to fan moonbeams away from his eyes as he sleeps . Bow to him , fairies , and curtsy to him .
" Odors , " " odors . "
No one . I did it myself . Give my love to my kind husband . Oh , goodbye !
No , not me , sir .
If you want to really have some fun , watch him next time he 's near Lady Olivia . He 'll show up in yellow stockings -- she hates yellow -- and with laces crisscrossing up his legs -- she hates that style of dress -- and he 'll smile , which will go completely against her mood , since she 's addicted to sadness now . She 'll definitely get upset with him . If you want to watch , follow me .
Miss Bianca , may you be blessed with all the happiness you deserve . No , I 've caught you out , my dear . You 're busted . Hortensio and I have given you up .
A little bit .
Making good time , here 's the duke of York .
Because he 's daring us to do it .
Prince , I wo n't wait for my trial : listen to my story , and let the count kill me now . I tricked your own eyes . These stupid fools have uncovered what you in all your wisdom could not . They heard me confess to Conrade how Don John , your brother , prompted me to slander Hero -- how you came to the orchard and saw me making sexual advances toward Margaret , who was disguised as Hero ; how you disgraced Hero when you should have married her . They 've recorded my crimes , and I would rather die than have to retell this shameful story . The lady has died because of the false accusations of me and my master . I desire nothing now but a criminal 's punishment .
Hey , lady , if I were n't feeling a little sick , I 'd give you a piece of my mind . General , take my soldiers , my prisoners , my whole inheritance , and do as you like with them . I surrender myself to your good judgment . Let the whole world see that I hereby make you my lord and master .
I 'm happy about that . He 'll be a good governor .
I 'll be good , sir . Go ahead .
God save your grace , King Hal ! My royal Hal !
I never saw such pitiful - looking losers .
Boatswain !
Come onto these yellow sands , And we 'll join hands , When you 've curtsied and kissed The waves into silence . Prance lightly here and there , And the sweet spirits bear The burden . Listen , listen !
With him , we can .
As you can see , these lovers are looking for a place to fight . Hurry up , Robin , and make the night dark and cloudy . Cover the sky with a low-hanging fog , as dark as hell , and get these overeager rivals so completely lost in the woods that they ca n't run into each other . Imitate Lysander 's voice and egg Demetrius on with insults . Then rant for a while in Demetrius 's voice , and egg Lysander on . That way you 'll get them away from each other until they 're so exhausted that they 'll sleep like the dead . When they 're asleep , crush some of this flower 's juice into Lysander 's eyes . The flower 's juice has the power to erase all the damage that 's been done to his eyes , and to make him see normally , the way he used to . When they wake up , all this trouble and conflict will seem like a dream or a meaningless vision . Then the lovers will go back to Athens , united together until death . While you 're busy with that , I 'll go see Queen Titania and ask her once again for the Indian boy . And then I 'll undo the spell that I cast over her , so she wo n't be in love with that monster anymore . Then everything will be peaceful again .
O , run , Doll , run ; run , good Doll . Come . --She 's coming , all crying and blubbering . --Will you come , Doll ?
On this hill and in despair , with his slave Pindarus .
The bad news just keeps on coming , one disaster after another . Your sister 's drowned , Laertes .
If you were n't the queen of immaturity , I 'd think you were immaturity itself .
Please , father , since you 're weak , act like it . Get rid of half your knights and go back to spend the rest of your month with my sister . Afterward , you can stay with me . Right now I 'm away from home and I ca n't provide you with proper care .
I pledged my love to you before you asked me to . Yet I wish I could take that promise back , so I had it to give again .
It 's best just to let him go . He wo n't listen to anyone 's advice .
Thank you , my lord , for your kindness to Edmund .
Friends , Romans , countrymen , give me your attention . I have come here to bury Caesar , not to praise him . The evil that men do is remembered after their deaths , but the good is often buried with them . It might as well be the same with Caesar . The noble Brutus told you that Caesar was ambitious . If that 's true , it 's a serious fault , and Caesar has paid seriously for it . With the permission of Brutus and the others -- for Brutus is an honorable man ; they are all honorable men --I have come here to speak at Caesar 's funeral . He was my friend , he was faithful and just to me . But Brutus says he was ambitious , and Brutus is an honorable man . He brought many captives home to Rome whose ransoms brought wealth to the city .
We have not yet set the coronation day . Tomorrow , in my opinion , is too soon . I myself am not as well-equipped as I would be if the day were put off a bit .
I would n't think much of it even if it were heavier .
I 'll lock up the doors , grab some more ducats , and be with you right away .
You did -- not just once or twice , but twenty times . Take it home and make your wife happy . I 'll come over at suppertime and you can pay me for it then .
Give me that letter , sir .
I could cure you , if you just called me Rosalind and came by my cottage every day to woo me .
A man of great influence . I know him well by reputation . You are very welcome here , sir . You take the lute , and you , the set of books . I 'll send you to your pupils right away . You there in the house !
Calm down , good Laertes .
I saw him holding the handkerchief ! You liar , you 're turning my heart to stone , and making me call what I 'll do murder , when I had been thinking of it as a sacrifice ! I saw the handkerchief .
I am a gentleman of a company .
What an enormous lie ! Why did he marry Fulvia if he did n't love her ? I 'll pretend to be a fool and believe him . He 'll never change .
My mother had a maid named Barbary . She was in love , and her lover turned out to be wild and left her . She knew an old song called " Willow " that reminded her of her own story , and she died singing it . I ca n't get that song out of my head tonight . It 's all I can do to keep myself from hanging my head down in despair and singing it like poor Barbary . Please , hurry up .
Who is this fool ?
But what about the bloody handkerchief ?
In that case , mistress , there 's no reason for me to stay .
I 'll fix you , I swear .
I think Cassio really does love her , and it 's perfectly likely that she loves him too . I ca n't stand the Moor , but I have to admit that he 's a reliable , loving , and good-natured man . He 'd probably be a good husband to Desdemona . I love her too , not simply out of lust , but also to feed my revenge . I have a feeling the Moor slept with my wife . That thought keeps gnawing at me , eating me up inside . I wo n't be satisfied until I get even with him , wife for wife . If I ca n't do that , I can at least make the Moor so jealous that he ca n't think straight . If that piece of Venetian trash Roderigo can do what I need to carry out my plan , I 'll have power over Cassio . I 'll say bad things about him to the Moor . I have a feeling Cassio seduced my wife as well . I 'll make the Moor thank me , love me , and reward me , even though the joke will be on him the whole time . I 've got a good plan , though I have n't worked out the details yet . You can never see the end of an evil plan until the moment comes .
Ah , leave it alone . Leave it alone ! You armor my heart . No ! No ! That part goes there .
Monster , I 'll kill this man . His daughter and I will be king and queen --God protect us ! -- and you and Trinculo will be our governors . --Do you like that idea , Trinculo ?
Come now , Mortimer . You 're as reluctant to leave as Percy is on fire to go . Our agreements are drawn up by now . We 'll sign and then go straight to our horses .
Please let me know your plan , Bassanio . As long as it 's honorable , you can be sure that I 'll let you use all my money and do everything I can to help you .
I 'll follow you . I 'll run you around in circles , through bogs and bushes and woods and thorns . Sometimes I 'll take the shape of a horse , sometimes I 'll take the shape of a hound or a pig or a headless bear . Sometimes I 'll turn into fire ! And I 'll neigh like a horse and bark like a hound and grunt like a pig and roar like a bear and burn like a fire at every turn .
Train your eye on what you should be looking at , and you 'll see straight again .
Where have you sent the king ?
Is he crazy with love for you ?
The queen is dead , my lord .
So she was moved by it ?
Do n't think that ; that will not happen . God forgive whoever turned you against me like this ! I 'll redeem myself by beating Percy . And at the end of some
Good to see you , Iago .
We shall , my liege .
Pass on the command to halt !
I will , sir .
Sorrow interrupts all hours and seasons . It turns everything around -- the night into morning and noon into night . The only glory princes have are their titles .
What , are we playing with interjections ? Well then , add some interjections that indicate laughter , like " ah , " " ha , " and " he ! "
That 's all I ask from you , as long as you promise to rid yourself of any rotten idea that I am wise . Like the wind , I must have the freedom to blast anyone I please , as fools do . And whoever is most irritated by my foolishness has to laugh the hardest . Why , sir , must he ? Well , it 's as plain as the beaten path to a parish church . Any person who thinks I 'm satirizing them would be stupid if they did n't pretend not to be hurt by my joke . Otherwise , they 'd be admitting I was talking about them , and the fool would expose the wise man 's foolishness with a joke that was n't even meant for him . Dress me up in motley . Let me speak my mind , and I 'll rid the world of its sickness -- if it will only tolerate my medicine .
Now , you tanned fieldworkers who are so tired of August 's labors , get out of the dirt and come rejoice with us here . Put your straw hats on , have some fun , and dance with these young nymphs .
Hunt them down . Now all my enemies are at my mercy . Soon all my work will be done , and you 'll be free . Just obey me a little bit longer .
It 's strange that Regan and her husband left their house without sending back my messenger .
I want you there and back again before I can even tell you what you should do there . Oh , let my determination keep me from speaking what is in my heart ! I have a man 's mind , but only a woman 's strength . How hard it is for women to keep secrets ! Are you still here ?
We 'll take a rest , if you think it 's a good idea , and wait until daylight when things will be easier .
I told him that your father was in Venice , and that you expected him to arrive in Padua today .
Quickly and quietly , sir . The priest is already there .
Tortured , Bassanio ? Then confess to your crime . Tell us about the treason you 've mixed in with your love .
Swear by my sword .
Thanks , you brave men who defend this island and respect Othello . I hope heaven protects him from the weather , because I lost sight of him on the stormy sea .
I would n't dare say he lies anywhere .
Which is either a fool or a nothing .
Go as fast as you can .
Let 's go into the other room .
Now , my sweet lord , you know how much I like you . Tell me truthfully , do you love my sister ?
Oh , wait , sir . Stay here . I 'll go get my sister and see what she thinks .
Is this possible ?
No , my lord . I met him going back again .
I 'm satisfied .
Oh , my lord , I 'm sorry if I 'm forgetting my manners . It 's just that I 'm worried about you .
What villain , madam ?
children have lost -- or no longer have time to learn -- skills that should be a credit to our country . They grow like savages -- like soldiers who meditate on nothing but blood -- surrounded by swearing and stern looks , ragged clothing and everything unnatural . It 's to reverse all this , so we can once again become as we were , that you have all been brought together ; therefore I demand to know why gentle peace should not banish these troubles and bless us with her former qualities .
May the earth refuse me food and the heavens go dark , may I have no rest day and night , may my trust and hope turn to despair -- may the gloom of a prison overtake me , and may my every joy be turned to sorrow . May I know no peace either in this life or the next one , if I become a wife again after I am a widow .
Good for you , holding out on me like this ! No , I do n't know you , and my lady did n't send me to get you , and I 'm not supposed to tell you to come speak with her , and your name is not Master Cesario , and this is not my nose , either . Nothing is what it is .
Tailor , I 'll pay you for the gown tomorrow . Do n't be offended at his angry words . Go on , then . Regards to your master .
Is that how it 's going to be ? Are you starting to challenge me ? I 'll cure you of your insolence , and I 'm not going to give you a thousand crowns , either ! --Hey , Dennis !
My lord ?
While the moon was shining we did n't even notice the candle .
Wake up , my dear . Wake up . You 've slept well . Wake up .
Your mother 's son ? Probably , and you got your father 's name . The woman 's son is a portrait of the father ; yes , that 's usually the case , though the son is little more than a dim copy , without any of the father 's true substance .
The fool 's nice enough , but he 's such a huge eater , and slow as a snail when he works . He sleeps all day like a cat . Bees that do n't work ca n't stay in my hive , so I 'm letting him go , handing him off so he can waste money for his new boss , the man who borrowed money from me . Anyway , Jessica , go inside . I might come back soon . Do as I told you . Shut the doors after you . As the saying goes , lock things up , and you 'll get to keep them .
My lord , look at this poor girl .
The Mousetrap . Why on earth is it called that , you ask ? It 's a metaphor . This play is about a murder committed in Vienna . Gonzago is the duke 's name , and his wife is Baptista . You 'll see soon enough . It 's a piece of garbage , but who cares ? You and I have free souls , so it does n't concern us . Let the guilty wince . We can watch without being bothered .
My brave relative ! What a worthy man !
What 's the matter , dear ?
We heard that once you were served eight wild boars roasted whole for breakfast -- for only twelve people ! Is that true ?
He can read your thoughts . Listen , but do n't speak .
Sir , a word before you go . Are you a suitor to the girl we speak of , yes or no ?
He 'll still die by hanging , not drowning , even if every drop of water in the sea tries to swallow him .
Kind and dear princess !
That really does it !
Farewell , good Strato . Caesar , you can rest now . I did n't kill you half as willingly .
Then he swore he was a stranger here .
He 's had a ship wrecked coming from Tripolis .
I 've gotten used to the hardships of a military life . I rise to the occasion when faced with difficulties . I will take charge of this war against the Turks . But I humbly ask you to make appropriate arrangements for my wife ,
I swear to God you 're accusing me wrongly !
Hold it , Pistol . I do n't want you to go off here . Discharge someplace else , Pistol .
Look at you getting all riled up ! I want to be friends with you , and forget all the times you 've embarrassed and humiliated me . I want to give you what you need , and not charge a penny of interest -- but you wo n't listen to me ! I 'm making a kind offer -- zero percent financing .
I beg your pardon then . I must have the wrong woman . I mistook you for that sly Venetian woman who married Othello . --You whorehouse - keeper .
Hey , clown !
You who are beautiful beyond words , calm down and let me explain myself .
He 'll have to kill both of us , and indeed we 're both men . But let him start off easy by killing one of us . Come on -- kill me and brag about it ! Let me at him . Come on , come after me , little boy . Come on and get me . Little man , I 'll be right in your face with my sword . I will , as surely as I am a gentleman .
Spoken like a gentleman .
It seems you 're the one who needs to be broken . Be off with you , you dog !
Not the king , even if he were still alive to thank you . He never ordered their deaths . But since you 've come so soon after this bloodbath , you from battles in Poland and you from England , then give your men orders to display these corpses on a high platform , and let me tell the world how all this happened.You 'll hear of violent and unnatural acts , terrible accidents , casual murders , deaths caused by trickery and by threat , and finally murderous plans that backfired on their perpetrators . All this I can explain .
What , you fought with all of them ?
Not me . I 'll see her like this .
It will be made even heavier soon -- by the weight of a man .
Oh , yes I am , father .
Silence , then ! Do n't give it away .
What news do you bring ?
The Duke sends his regards . He needs to see you right away .
Is this your idea of success ? So much for our plan .
No.
To let a servant be familiar with my little toy , your hand -- a hand that has signed royal treaties and pledged your love to me -- oh , if only I were standing on the hill of Basan , so that I could roar louder than that horned herd ! For I have been savagely abused , and to state my grievances politely would be as absurd as a condemned criminal thanking the hangman for doing his job quickly .
Only three so far ? We 're still waiting for one more . Two of both kinds makes four . Ah , here she comes , angry and sad . Cupid is a bad boy for making poor women go crazy like this .
Snare , we 've got to arrest Sir John Falstaff .
Here come the lovers , laughing happily . --I wish you joy , my friends ! I hope the days ahead are full of joy for you .
Macbeth ! Macbeth ! Macbeth !
Excuse me , sir . I 've heard the word . You call it a turn of phrase ? I do n't know anything about phrases , but I 'll fight for the word . It 's a good , soldier - like word ; a word with many uses , to be sure . " Accommodated . " You can say that a man is accommodated when he has been furnished with supplies . And you can also say that a man is being accommodated when he 's , you know , being accommodated . Which is an excellent thing .
I ca n't find it . It 's not in the contract .
Listen to him deny it , like that man in the old tale " Mr. Fox " : " It is n't true and was n't true and God forbid it should be so . "
Good question , my girl . My story does raise that question . The answer , my dear , is that they did n't dare , because the people of Milan loved me too much . The had to disguise their bloody intentions . So , to make a long story short , they hurried us onto a ship and carried us a number of miles out to sea , where they prepared a rotten carcass of a boat , with no sails or masts or ropes , which even the rats had abandoned . They tossed us in the water to cry to the sea that roared back at us , to sigh into the winds that sighed right back at us in pity .
Ma'am , I 'd rather --
Do n't ever tell anyone what you 've seen tonight .
I 'm crying at how unworthy I am to give you what I want to give you and to take what I 'm dying to have . But it 's a waste of time to say so . The more I try to hide what I 'm feeling , the bigger it gets . Oh , stop being so bashful and tricky , Miranda , just be straightforward and innocent ! I 'll be your wife if you 'll have me . Otherwise , I 'll die a virgin , devoted to you . You can refuse to make me your spouse , but I 'll be your servant whether you want me to or not .
You 're off again and not listening to me . You will get to keep the prisoners --
We 'll mutiny .
No , afterward .
Has Gilliams left with my letters ?
Why , would that have fixed my hair ?
Please do n't , sir . I 've been up for a long time and have done a lot of traveling recently . This punishment will be a good chance to catch up on my sleep . The rest of the time I 'll whistle to entertain myself . Even good men have bad luck . Have a good morning .
Let 's follow the old earl , and get that crazy Tom to take him wherever he wants to go . As a wandering lunatic , he can do whatever he wants .
If the Duke keeps treating you so well , Cesario , you 'll go far . He 's only known you for three days , but he 's already treating you like a close friend .
Friar , I think I need a favor from you .
Let 's get dressed quickly and then meet in the hall .
Here 's the east . Wo n't the dawn come from here ?
Whoa , man , you dare to support someone who 's been proclaimed a traitor ? Get out of here , before his bad luck infects you too . Let go of his arm .
It 's a good thing he 's here to recommend himself . No one else would .
Wait , and listen to me , countrymen .
But we have n't made any preparations .
I wo n't be hit , my lord .
Go ahead . Go quickly .
Knock , knock , knock ! Who 's there ? Maybe it 's an English tailor who liked to skimp on the fabric for people 's clothes . But now that tight pants are in fashion he ca n't get away with it . Come on in , tailor . You can heat your iron up in here .
This is a classic example of the idiocy of the world : when we 're down and out -- often because of our own excesses -- we put all the blame on the sun , the moon , and the stars , as if they forced us to be bad , or the heavens compelled us to be villainous or stupid . As if we become thieves and traitors according to astrological signs or obey planetary influences to become drunks , liars , and adulterers ! As if some universal power pushed us into evil deeds ! What a sneaky trick it is for lustful mankind to blame our horniness on some star ! My father and mother coupled when the demonic moon was descending , and I was born under the Big Dipper , so it 's inevitable that I 'm rude and oversexed . Christ ! I would have been what I am even if the most virginal star in the heavens had twinkled at my conception . Edgar --
Be my witness , oh you blessed moon . The men who revolted against Antony will be remembered scornfully in the history books . But poor Enobarbus repented .
Lock him in , so he can play the fool in his own home only . Good - bye .
All right , come with me . Do n't be discouraged . Continue your lessons with my younger daughter . She 's quick to learn and responsive . Signior Petruchio , will you come with us , or shall I send my daughter Kate to you ?
Next time maybe you 'll knock when I tell you , punk kid !
Oh , Harry , you 've taken away my youth . I can handle the loss of my fragile life , but not the loss of all the honors you have won from me : that loss wounds my thoughts more than your sword wounds my flesh . But thought depends on life , and life depends on time , and time , which watches over the whole world , must stop eventually . Oh , I could make prophecies , but the cold hand of death is stopping my tongue . No , Percy . You are dust , and food for --
If I were handsome , my lovely Thisbe , I would still want only you .
How 's the King doing ?
Horatio says we 're imagining it , and wo n't let himself believe anything about this horrible thing that we 've seen twice now . That 's why I 've begged him to come on our shift tonight , so that if the ghost appears he can see what we see and speak to it .
Maybe she was just naked in bed with him for an hour or so , but they did n't do anything .
Jesus ! I 've heard the Prince tell him countless times that ring was only made out of copper .
Oh , you lowlife ! Scum !
That 's true . People who fool around with words too much can make words act like whores -- changing all the time , and immoral too .
No , do n't pause , because I did kill King Henry , though it was your beauty that made me do it . Go ahead . And it was me who stabbed young Edward , though it was your heavenly face that set me to work .
My stupid heart , which I 'm leaving behind here .
May good fortune come to you , good Petruchio ! You 've won the wager , and I will add twenty thousand crowns to what they owe you . Another dowry for another wife , for , truly , she is so transformed she 's like a completely new woman .
Ha , ha , ha ! Excellent , I swear ! Things that do n't get used enough do indeed become moldy . Good one , I swear . Well said , Sir John , very well said .
Look , it 's my dear Lady Disdain ! Are n't you dead yet ?
Oh , he 's drunk , Sir Toby , for a whole hour now . His eyes started glazing over around eight in the morning .
Have you done everything you could to make him tell you the reason ?
It is not courteous , you know , to assume you know my meaning before I 've finished talking . I 'm speaking purely in analogies and comparisons . Just as Alexander killed his friend Cleitus when he was drinking , so Harry Monmouth , having come to his senses and acquired good judgment , turned away the fat knight in the oversized doublet : the man was full of jests and japes and pranks and mocks . I have forgotten his name .
You think she gave it to Cassio ? No , I found it and gave it to my husband .
Here they come . We will watch the execution .
I do n't know how you 're going to do that , unless you give me your jacket and fill me out with stuffing . Please , Sir John , let me have five hundred of my thousand .
Peasant , I have gambled my life on this one throw of the dice , and I 'm willing to take what comes . I think there are six Richmonds on the field . I 've killed five that looked like him , anyway . A horse , a horse ! I 'd give my kingdom for a horse !
Let 's get out of here ! They 'll kill us !
I have no doubt that you love me . I 'm beginning to understand what you want me to do . What I think about this , and about what 's happening here in Rome , I 'll tell you later . For now , do n't try to persuade me anymore --I ask you as a friend . I 'll think over what you 've said , I 'll listen patiently to whatever else you have to say , and I 'll find a good time for us to discuss further such weighty matters . Until then , my noble friend , think about this : I 'd rather be a poor villager than call myself a citizen of Rome under the hard conditions that this time is likely to put us through .
Please , tell me more . There 's something in your expression that tells me you have something serious to say , and you 're having a lot of difficulty saying it .
But not so nice when women misbehave .
But where will we go ?
I want to go home .
Do you know them ?
That Don John had given him a thousand pieces of gold for wrongfully accusing the Lady Hero .
Good job , my little one . Stay invisible . Bring the fancy clothes out of my house , to use as bait to catch these thieves .
Thanks , my good countryman .
Look , here 's more news .
That might be the case sir , after I 'm married .
If true lovers are always thwarted , then it must be a rule of fate . So let 's try to be patient as we deal with our problem . It 's as normal a part of love as dreams , sighs , wishes , and tears .
No ! Let me see her . Oh no ! She 's cold . Her blood has stopped , and her joints are stiff . She 's been dead for some time . She 's dead , like a beautiful flower , killed by an unseasonable frost .
Brother , I 'm giving you good advice . Arm yourself . I 'd be a liar if I told you nobody wanted to hurt you . I 've told you what I 've seen and heard , but I 've toned it down a lot . I 've spared you you the full extent of the horror that threatens you . Now please go .
Please , please tell me ! This is amazing . I would have thought she was invincible against any assault of love .
Madam !
Thank you , sir . That 's all I wanted to know .
Close the garden door and leave me alone to hear his message .
Let 's get out of here . I 'm in a rush .
I thank you for that quip , good Tranio .
All the rest of you can leave too .
You say you have news that 's old ? How can that be ?
There you go ! I brought good news !
That 's true . They 're strong , and they look pretty good in brown tights . Should we throw a little dance party ?
It 's not okay ! I 'm going to tell Desdemona my feelings . If she returns my jewels , I 'll stop pursuing her and apologize to her . If not , I 'll challenge you to a duel .
Come on , do n't tell me that . I do n't like it that you knew about this , Iago . All this time I 've thought you were such a good friend that I 've let you spend my money as if it was yours .
Give me your hands . May anyone who does n't wish you joy feel grief and sorrow .
Who could be out of things to say if he were with the girl he loves ?
I 'm here , man , at your elbow .
them brothers , friends , and countrymen . There is no indication of the mighty army that surrounds them in his expression , nor has the long , sleepless night robbed his face of an ounce of color . Instead , he looks fresh and covers any signs of fatigue with a show of cheerfulness and sweet majesty that every sad and pale wretch takes comfort in when they see him . His generous eye notices everyone , doling out a bounty as far-reaching as the sun , thawing cold fear , so that low and well-born alike may all experience a little touch of Harry in the night . With that , our scene rushes on toward the battle , which we will represent with four or five worn-out fencing foils , a travesty of battle -- forgive us ! -- that disgraces the name of Agincourt . Still , stay to watch , imagining the way it really was from our own inadequate imitation .
That 'll be fine . Since you left , people have been talking about -- and within earshot of Hamlet -- a certain quality of yours in which , they say , you shine . All your talents and gifts did n't arouse as much envy from him as this one quality did , though to me it 's far from your best attribute .
Rather than have to think about my crime , I 'd prefer to be completely unconscious .
He accuses me of withholding his share of Sextus Pompeius ' possessions , which we seized in Sicily . Then he says I did n't return some ships he loaned me . Finally , he criticizes the deposing of Lepidus , and then goes on to accuse me of keeping all of Lepidus ' property for myself .
True . And as wise as a goose .
Why ? Who are you ?
Indeed , my lord , he is a perfectly wonderful horse .
Poor guy . Once the price of oats went up , he was never happy again . It killed him .
What did he say ?
He says that for Brutus 's sake he finds himself indebted to us all .
Do n't sleep at night , and do n't eat during the day . Compare what you 've lost with what you suffer now . Remember your children as being sweeter than they actually were , and think of the man who killed them as worse than he is . Making your loss greater makes the person who caused it worse . Think like this all day , and you 'll learn how to curse .
Sir , I 'll soak this letter in wine and shove it down his throat .
When he woke , he would n't know where he was .
Everyone , please leave us alone for a moment . I 've got a " sacred " secret to hear .
I am ? But I 'm not dying yet !
He will if he lives long enough to become a man .
They were paid to betray their master . Malcolm and Donalbain , the king 's two sons , have run away and fled , which makes them the prime suspects .
I 'll follow after you .
Tie him up harder . --You filthy traitor !
This Doll Tearsheet must be some road .
The truth is , Sir John , that you are massively notorious .
You can hear his horses moving around as the servants take them to the stables .
Why , what is there to do before I get there ?
Every person I meet greets me like an old friend , and every one of them knows my name . Some of them give me money , some invite me places , some thank me for the kind things I 've done for them , some try to sell me things . Just now a tailor showed me fabrics he bought especially for me and then started to take my measurements . These are tricks of the imagination , and this place is filled with magicians .
I will live in your heart , die in your lap , and be buried in your eyes -- and , what 's more , I will go with you to your uncle' s .
Has it been a quiet night ?
I wish your highness would help me follow your meaning . Who do you mean , your grace ?
Summertime in Verona has no flower as fine as him .
Its own color .
that mountain of insanity that wants to marry me , I could find it in my heart to stay here and become a witch myself .
No way , then , I 'll run . What 's the matter with you , madam ? I have n't done anything to you .
One of you do the talking . What do you want ?
Hide ; I do n't want to talk to him .
I like it too .
But old age has sneaked up on me And grabbed me in his claws , And has shipped me into the ground As if I 'd never been like that .
Look how sadly he 's coming in , reading his book .
Check out this stud ! What a heartthrob !
Go on , get out of here . You 're a lying , cowardly wretch . You mock an ancient tradition , born of reverence and worn in honor of brave men who have died , and then have the gall not to stand by your words . I 've seen you bait and mock this man more than once . You thought because he did n't speak English like a native he could n't handle an English club . You 've learned otherwise . Let this be a Welsh lesson to you to behave with English manners in the future . Farewell .
I must go and continue the business Fulvia started .
Rogue , you 've lived too long !
I did not kill your husband .
In that case , I 'm sorry you have to lose me as a husband because you lost the king as a father .
Yes , you 're part of the species called men . Just as hounds and greyhounds , mongrels , spaniels , mutts , shaggy lapdogs , swimming dogs , and wolf - dog crossbreeds are all dogs . But if you list the different kinds of dogs according to their qualities , you can distinguish which breeds are fast or slow , which ones are clever , which ones are watchdogs , and which ones hunters . You can classify each dog according to the natural gifts that separate it from all other dogs . It 's the same with men . Now , if you occupy some place in the list of men that is n't down at the very bottom , tell me . Because if that 's the case , I will tell you a plan that will get rid of your enemy and bring you closer to me . As long as Banquo lives , I am sick . I 'll be healthy when he is dead .
I second that motion . So be it . Petruchio , I 'm buying .
I do n't know , madam .
Yes , he is dead . What are you going to do for a father ?
Away with the doddering fool ! Take him off to jail !
So , are you going to wrestle before the new duke tomorrow ?
Leave him alone . I wo n't follow him around with useless pleas anymore . He wants me dead . I know the real reason . I 've often given money to people who were unable to pay back their loans to him . That 's why he hates me .
And anything else ?
The king 's having a party here tonight . Just make sure the queen does n't come anywhere near him , because King Oberon is extremely angry . He 's furious because she stole an adorable boy from an Indian king . She 's never kidnapped such a darling human child before , and Oberon 's jealous . He wants the child for himself , to accompany him on his wanderings through the wild forests . But the queen refuses to hand the boy over to Oberon . Instead , she puts flowers in the boy 's hair and makes a fuss over him .
Listen , Guildenstern , and you too , Rosencrantz -- listen as close as you can ! This big baby is still in diapers .
Come on , come on , come on , sir . Shake my hand , sir , shake my hand . You 're an early riser , I swear . How are you , cousin Silence ?
What ? You take out your sword and then talk about peace ? I hate the word peace like I hate hell , all Montagues , and you . Let 's go at it , coward !
You 'll know about that later .
You will become a true lover soon , and exhaust your friends with your endless chatter about your feelings . Look , if you really love the beautiful Hero , enjoy it . I will speak to her and her father about the matter , and I 'll convince Leonato to promise Hero to you . Is n't that the reason you told me all this ?
I 'll be there , and I 'll enjoy myself .
Great thane of Glamis ! Worthy thane of Cawdor ! You 'll soon be greater than both those titles , once you become king ! Your letter has transported me from the present moment , when who knows what will happen , and has made me feel like the future is already here .
Come down .
Look , sir , I 'm bleeding .
That light we see is coming from my hall . Look how far that little candle sends its light ! That 's the way a good deed shines in a naughty world .
Why , a bad action is just a wrong in this world , but when you 've won the whole world , it 's a wrong in your own world , so you can make it right then .
I 'd kiss you before I spoke .
From soldiers . But you 'll never see the front lines . It 's easy for you to talk about bravery , working as a fool in this palace .
Farewell , my lord .
If only you were , sir .
No one may be bolder than my Lord Hastings . He knows me well and loves me well . --Ely , when I was last at your palace , I saw some great strawberries in your garden . I beg you , send someone to bring some of them .
Look at me , sir , and give me your blessing . No , sir , do n't kneel .
Rude dog ! Stop when I command you to ! And put up your weapon so it 's not pointing at my chest , or I 'll strike you to the ground and trample on you , you beggar , for being so bold .
As am I. Judge us , everyone .
When a man 's jokes fall that flat , it 's as depressing as getting a large bill for a short stay in a little room . Really , Audrey , I wish you were more poetical .
Why not ?
But no beautiful woman has an honest face .
Where 's lady Portia ?
You 're still talking about " banished ? " Forget about philosophy ! Unless philosophy can create a Juliet , or pick up a town and put it somewhere else , or reverse a prince 's punishment , it does n't do me any good . Do n't say anything else .
I tell you , I 'll either make him eat some part of this leek or give him a four-day head - bashing . --Go on , bite . It 's good for your fresh wound and your bloody noggin .
By the light of heaven , no , I would not !
I 'm glad to hear you say that . Now I can show you my devotion and my duty with more honesty . So please listen to me . I 'm not talking about proof yet . Watch your wife . Watch how she is with Cassio . Just watch --do n't be either completely suspicious or completely trustful . I would n't want to see you taken advantage of because you 're such an open and trusting guy . Watch out ! I know the people of Venice well . They let God see things they would n't show their husbands . They do n't avoid doing things that are wrong , they just try not to get caught .
You ca n't go any further with us , sir .
Who deserted this morning ?
I am still so faithful , my lord .
Our master and mistress are looking for you . Let 's go .
Oh God , whose side I think I 'm fighting on , look kindly on my forces . Fuel them with dangerous fury , so they can crush the enemy . Make us your agents of revenge , so we can praise you when we 're victorious ! Before I fall asleep , I entrust my soul to you . Defend me , God , both when I 'm asleep and when I 'm awake . He sleeps .
He 's drowned in the brook : look in , and you 'll see him .
I frown at him , but he still loves me .
Here 's someone coming in his pajamas , with a candle and weapons .
It 's not such a big deal . Glass is the only good thing to drink out of anyway . And as for the walls , something pretty and comical -- or a depiction of the prodigal son ; or maybe one of those German hunting scenes , painted on the wall to look like a tapestry -- why , those are worth a thousand of those bed curtains and moth-eaten tapestries . Let me borrow just ten pounds , all right ? Come on -- other than your moodiness , you 're the best wench in England . Go wash your face and withdraw the lawsuit . Come on --do n't be this way with me . Do n't you know me ? Come , come , I know somebody put you up to this .
Our noble and courageous general Othello having been informed that the Turkish fleet has been completely destroyed , invites every man to celebrate our victory . Some of you dance , some of you make bonfires , and every man celebrate in whatever way he likes to . For besides the good news , we are also celebrating his marriage . That 's the end of the announcement . There will be a feast from five o'clock until eleven . God bless the island of Cyprus and our noble general Othello !
Sir , please give me permission to go via Gloucestershire . When you get to the court , please vouch for my good work here .
Will you cry about your cousin 's death forever ? Are you trying to wash him out of his grave with tears ? If you could , you could n't bring him back to life . So stop crying . A little bit of grief shows a lot of love . But too much grief makes you look stupid .
Master , there 's a ship from Epidamnum that 's going to set sail as soon as its owner gets on board . I 've left our luggage on the ship , and I bought the oil , balm , and liquor you wanted . The ship is ready , the wind is up , and the sailors are only waiting for their owner and for you .
Just as the ox has his yoke , the horse its bridle , the falcon a tether , a man has his desires -- to keep in check .
What are you going to do ? Let 's not stay here with them . It 's easy for a liar to pretend to feel sorrow when he actually feels none . I 'm going to England .
Ah , you jokester -- that 's the dog 's name . " R " is for the -- no , I know it begins with another letter . She says the most beautiful things about you and rosemary . It would be good for you to hear the things she says .
Oh fiddlesticks , Sir John , I do n't want to hear it . Your Ensign Troublemaker is not coming in here . I talked to Master Tisick , the deputy , the other day . And he said to me -- it could n't have been longer ago than last Wednesday -- " I swear , neighbor Quickly , " he said . " Neighbor Quickly , " he said , " only let in people who are well behaved , because , " he said , " your reputation is suffering . " He said that , and I 'll tell you why . " You 're an honest woman , and people think highly of
Killed ? Why ? That would be a little extreme !
And I saw her do it .
Oh , yes , he created a thousand comparisons . First , he spoke of the deer 's needless addition to the stream 's water supply . " Poor deer , " he said , " you 're just like a human : you add more to what already has too much . " Then , about the deer 's being alone , abandoned by his velvety companions : " It 's appropriate , " he said , " that a miserable creature should excuse itself from company . " Just then , a carefree herd of deer , having just eaten their fill of pasture grass , bounded along without stopping to greet their wounded brother . " Sure , " said Jaques , " hurry on , you fat and greasy citizens . Why stop and notice this poor , broken , bankrupt creature here ? " In this way , he most insightfully pierced to the heart of the country , the city , the court , and even our lives out here in the forest , swearing that we are mere usurpers and tyrants , frightening and killing animals in their own homes .
It stands by her bedside . She always has to have a light next to her . Those are her orders .
Oh no , if you 're joking around with me , I 'm leaving . Wait , here 's a coin for you .
All right then , back home we go . Come , fellow , let 's be off .
Oh , good King Lear , you 're proving that , just as they say , everything goes from good to bad . Rise and shine , sun , so I can read this letter . Only those who are truly miserable see miracles . I know this letter is from Cordelia , who knows that I 'm serving the king in disguise . She says that she will have time , now that she 's away from the monstrous conditions here , to find a way to fix things . I 'm exhausted . I 've been awake too long . This fatigue gives me an excuse to shut my eyes so I ca n't see myself humiliated in the stocks . Good night , Lady Luck . Smile and spin your wheel of fortune again .
You 'd be a pitiful bird . You would n't know enough to be afraid of traps .
How can they refuse to speak with me ? How can they say that they 're sick or exhausted or that they have traveled all night ! ? They 're playing with me . These are tricks . This is rebellion . Go ask them again and make them see me this time .
of punishment you propose is more suited to petty shoplifters than to royal attendants . The king will be offended to find out that his messenger is so badly treated .
Go , Pindarus , climb a little higher on this hill . My eyesight has always been bad . Watch Titinius and tell me what you see in the field .
Oh ! Oh ! Oh !
Save him , save him !
you . You 're going off to war , and whether or not I ever see you again -- well , who cares .
Never trust me again if I do n't . And by all means see if you can get the young man to answer it . I do n't think a team of oxen could get them close enough to fight . If you dissected Andrew and found enough red blood in his liver for a flea to eat , then I 'd eat the rest of his corpse . He 's a coward .
Is everything ready for that event ?
I 've been transformed somehow , have n't I , master ?
And who is that ?
Please say no more .
By all the gods that Romans worship , I hereby throw off my sickness ! Soul of Rome ! Brave son of honorable ancestors ! You 've conjured up my deadened spirit like an exorcist . Now say the word , and I will tackle all kinds of impossible things , and succeed too . What is there to do ?
They killed your wife , your children , your servants , anyone they could find .
Signior Gremio , are you coming from the church ?
The gods forbid ! Can I do what all the Parthian arrows , though shot by enemies , could not ?
Then tomorrow at dinner ?
Get on with your business , sir , and leave the poor people alone . If macho talk like yours could kill me , I 'd have died weeks ago . No , do n't come near the old man . Keep away , I 'm warning you , or I 'll find out whether your head is harder than my walking stick . I 'm completely serious .
O Harry 's wife , do not triumph in my sorrow ! With God as my witness , I swear I have wept for yours .
We have n't even talked about who 'll be our torchbearers .
I give you a sister whom I love more than a brother ever loved any sister . She will be the bond that joins our kingdoms and our hearts . We 'll never fight again .
With his magic powers my master can see the dangers that you are in , my friend . So he sent me to make sure these men survive -- and to guarantee his plans succeed . While you lie here snoring , Men are plotting against you . If you want to stay alive , Wake up and beware . Wake up , wake up !
Go to your bedroom . I 'll find Romeo to comfort you . I know where he is . Listen , your Romeo will be here tonight . I 'll go to him . He 's hiding out in Friar Lawrence 's cell .
At , " It will be natural for him to agree with you ... he 'll call you ' sir , ' ' friend , ' " et cetera .
A guy like that is bigger than an ape , but the ape could be his doctor , it 's so much smarter .
Ha ! Goneril with a white beard ? Ha , Regan? --They flattered me and told me how wise I was , wise before my time . To agree to everything I said was not truly devout . --The rain came to drench me , and the wind to make me shiver , and the thunder would n't stop roaring when I ordered it to . That 's when I learned the truth about them . That 's when I sniffed them out . I tell you , they are not honest men . They told me I was everything . It 's a lie . I 'm not immune to chills .
Could you have found two Romans as good as these two ? Good-bye to you , the last of all the Romans . Rome will never produce your equal . Friends , I owe more tears to this dead man than you will see me shed . I will find the time to cry for you , Cassius , I 'll find the time . Come , then , and send his body to Thasos . We wo n't have his funeral at our camp , because it might make us too sad to fight . Lucillius , come . And come , young Cato . Let 's proceed to the field . Labio and Flavio , push our armies onward . It is three o'clock , and , Romans , before night , we will try our luck in a second battle .
Enough to buy everything you have declared .
Stop right there , sir . Let 's not get gloomy in our reminiscing , since there 's no reason for sadness anymore .
Do n't follow me . Stay here .
I 'll do it , and I 'll put a little dab of something on my sword as well . From a quack doctor I bought some oil so poisonous that if you dip a knife in it , no medicine in the world can save the person who 's scratched by it . If I even graze his skin slightly , he 's likely to die .
If I know nothing about pity , that must mean I 'm not an animal .
I say she shall . --And first begin with her .
Morning , deliverymen . What time is it ?
I give up ; I wo n't say any more . Do what you want . Let your wisdom guide you .
I think I can do that . It 's not too much to ask .
Neighbors and friends , though we do n't have anyone for the bride and bridegroom 's places at the table , you know there 's nothing missing in the feast itself .
Now , Sheriff , what is it you want from me ?
Enough of this frivolous talk . Give our officers notice of our intentions . I 'll tell the Queen the reason for our quick departure and get her permission to leave . Fulvia 's death and the pressing concerns related to it are not the only reasons I am eager to go ; friends in Rome have also sent many letters advising my return . Sextus Pompeius has challenged Caesar . His fleet controls the sea . Our fickle citizens -- who never reward service until that service is over -- are now giving all the rights and honors won by Pompey the Great to his son , Sextus . Sextus has great honor and power , and his spirit and energy are even greater , all of which makes him the most formidable soldier in the empire . The empire may be in danger if he 's not restrained before he reaches his full potential . There are many troubles brewing now that have yet to become full-fledged threats . Like horse 's hairs dropped in a bucket of water , they come alive like snakes but as yet they bear no poison . This sentence refers to a popular belief of the time . Like horse 's hairs dropped in a bucket of water , they come alive like snakes but as yet they bear no poison . Relay our intentions to the officers who will be in charge of the move .
It 's unnatural , just like the murder that has been committed . Last Tuesday a falcon was circling high in the sky , and it was caught and killed by an ordinary owl that usually goes after mice .
What do you mean , " wears the wreath " ? Are you talking about the crown ?
Caesar , what did my stay in Egypt have to do with you ?
Oh God , I wish Sir John would come ! He 'd make somebody bleed for this . I pray to God that she has a miscarriage !
It 's strange that you want to take revenge on the person who loves you .
Madam , please let me see your face .
Sir , it would be merciful to let him live after beating him severely .
What ? Romeo , are you crazy ?
It 's unnatural to be asleep and act as if you 're awake . When she is like this , besides walking and performing various activities , have you heard her say anything ?
Why , what 's going on here , nephew ? Why are you acting so angry ?
Your saying this is n't proof . There has to be clear evidence that he 's done this , not just these accusations .
Oh , I 'd forgotten that no one 's supposed to speak the truth .
I beg your pardon , sir . I 've done you wrong . Forgive me as a gentleman . Everyone here knows -- and I 'm sure you 've heard -- that I 'm suffering from a serious mental illness . When I insulted you it was due to insanity . Was Hamlet the one who insulted Laertes ? No , not Hamlet . If Hamlet is robbed of his own mind , and insults Laertes when he 's not really himself , then Hamlet 's not guilty of the offense . Who is guilty , then ? Hamlet 's mental illness is .
What a miracle ! Our handwriting gives away our hearts . Come on , I 'll take you , but honestly I 'm only doing it out of pity .
And I will spend our time apart on my knees , praying for you .
They 're on their way to invade some part of Poland .
Damn , you 're right . One day the Prince put a plate of apple - johns in front of Falstaff and said , " Here are five more Sir Johns . " Then the Prince took off his hat and said , " I 'm now going to bid farewell to these six dry , round , old , withered knights . " It angered Sir John deeply , but he got over it .
Right now ?
Easy , sir . It 's a bad cook who ca n't lick his own fingers . So the cooks who ca n't lick their fingers are n't hired .
Well , sir , I 'll take you to Lear and have you stay with him a while . I have important business that requires me to remain in disguise a while longer . When I 've revealed my true identity , you 'll be glad you took the time to help me out . Please come with me .
A victory in battle is twice as victorious when all the soldiers return home safely . This letter also says that Don Pedro has given honors to a young man from Florence named Claudio .
If you 're lying , I 'll hang you alive from the nearest tree until you die of hunger . If what you say is true , you can do the same to me . My confidence is failing . I 'm starting to doubt the lies the devil told me , which sounded like truth . " Do n't worry until Birnam Wood comes to Dunsinane . " And now a wood is coming to Dunsinane . Prepare for battle , and go ! If what this messenger says is true , it 's no use running away or staying here . I 'm starting to grow tired of living , and I 'd like to see the world plunged into chaos . Ring the alarms ! Blow , wind ! Come , ruin ! At least we 'll die with our armor on .
Oh , my good lord , you 've lost a friend , indeed . I 'm sure you 're not borrowing that sorrowful face ; it 's certainly your own .
Uncle , please give me your dagger .
All right , have it your way . I have to make do .
Come here . I 'm over here .
That 's how I always do it , getting money from fools . I 'd be wasting my skills dealing with an idiot like that if I could n't get something useful out of him . I hate the Moor , and there 's a widespread rumor that he 's slept with my wife . I 'm not sure it 's true , but just the suspicion is enough for me . He thinks highly of me . That 'll help . Cassio 's a handsome man . Let 's see , how can I
Hey , Grumio !
Go tell the priests to perform a sacrifice immediately , and bring me their interpretation of the results .
But they 're siding with a better wrestler than myself .
-- such a long way on foot , I 'll be tired .
That is exactly why we wanted you here , your lordship -- to avoid the public carping and complaints .
Son , I 'll stake you half that Bianca comes .
I 'll listen to Cassius , and we will compare their reasons .
The plantain leaf is excellent for that .
Give me your hand . With the friar as my witness , I am your husband , if you want me .
Do n't refuse the love we offer you .
For what favor ?
speaking with goblins , owls , and demons . If we do n't obey them , they 'll suck the life out of us or pinch us black and blue .
The body is safely hidden .
I ca n't go back . I 'm afraid even to think about what I 've done . I ca n't stand to look at it again .
Let 's shake hands . You 'll get a share of our spoils ; I swear on my honor as a true man .
See ! If they could make me a cuckold , they 'd whore themselves in order to see it done .
Oh , my good lord , do n't make me insult music again with my awful singing .
They have fully sixty thousand fighting men .
You 're scaring me . You terrify me when you have that look in your eyes . I do n't know why I should be afraid , since I have n't done anything wrong . But I 'm still afraid .
Hal , know this : if you were only a man , I would dare . But since you 're also a Prince , I 'm scared of you , as much as I 'm scared by the roar of a lion 's cub .
No , but she 's taught me a thing or two ! All I said was that she was using the wrong frets and tried to adjust her fingering . And she jumps up and says , " Frets ? I 'll give you frets ! " With that , she clobbers me with the lute so that my head goes right through ,
I wish I were invisible , so I could grab that strong fellow by the leg .
What , I have to hold a candle up so people can see what I 'm doing ? The truth is , I 'm behaving like a loose woman . The torchbearer is supposed to bring light and love , but I should be hidden away in the dark .
A gentleman ? We 'll see about that !
I 'll tell you privately .
I 'm amazed that a man , after watching romance turn another man into a fool and laughing at that man , can turn right around and become the thing he 's scorned . That 's the kind of man Claudio is . I knew him when he listened to nothing but the military drum and fife ; now he would rather hear the sweet and refined music of the tabor and pipe . I knew him when he would 've walked ten miles to see a well-crafted suit of armor ; now he spends ten nights awake in his room designing himself a fancy new jacket . He used to speak plainly and to the point , like an honorable man and soldier ; now his speech is elaborate and flowery . His words are like a miraculous banquet , full of strange new dishes . Will I be changed like that , and see the world through a lover 's eyes ? I 'm not sure , but I do n't think so .
Come , high or low spirits . Show yourself and what you do .
Go , girl , look for a man who 'll give you happy nights at the end of happy days .
Yes , it 's Emilia . --Just a minute ! --She 's dead now . --Emilia 's probably come to tell me that Cassio 's been killed . The fight outside was loud . So ! You 're not moving anymore ? No , you 're as still as a grave . Should I let her in ? Is that a good idea ? I think she 's moving again --No. What should I do ? If she comes in , she 'll try to speak to my wife . My wife , my wife ! What wife ? I do n't have a wife . Oh , this is unbearable ! Oh , the horror ! There should be a huge eclipse of the sun and the moon , now that Desdemona 's no longer on this earth .
And he 's not exactly eager to be interrogated . He 's very sly and dances around our questions when we try to get him to talk about how he feels .
Or stole it , rather .
We ca n't get him to tell us where he 's put the body .
When the actors were talking about poison ?
Oh , wisdom and absurdity mixed up together ! Reason in madness !
Where 's my fool ? You 'd think everyone was asleep .
But what 's he like ?
So , by heaven 's decree , Rosalind Was composed Of different faces , eyes , and hearts , so that she might have the most prized touches of all . Heaven wanted Rosalind to have these gifts And me to live and die as her slave .
Never , Iago . My thoughts of revenge are flowing through me like a violent river , never turning back to love , only flowing toward full revenge that 'll swallow them up . I swear to God I 'll get revenge .
James Tyrrel -- and your most obedient subject .
And , being a man of your breeding , you 're going to be married under some shrubs like a beggar ? Get yourself to a church and have a proper priest , who can tell you what marriage is all about , marry you . This man here will slap you two together like two pieces of wood panelling . Then one of you will warp and pull away -- and there goes your marriage .
Up and down , up and down , I will lead them up and down . The people fear me in the country and the town . Goblin , lead them up and down . Here comes one of them now .
Then tell me to kill myself , and I will .
This nonsense means more than rational speech .
Davy , Davy , Davy , Davy , let 's see , Davy , let 's see , Davy , let 's see . Oh yes , right : tell William the cook to come here . Sir John , you will not be excused .
Well , I disagree . But why not put it to the test ? Let 's each one send for his wife . Whichever 's is most obedient and comes most readily shall win the bet that we 'll propose .
My king , they have n't come back yet . But I spoke with someone who saw Cawdor die , and he said that Cawdor openly confessed his treasons , begged your highness 's forgiveness , and repented deeply . He never did anything in his whole life that looked as good as the way he died . He died like someone who had practiced how to toss away his most cherished possession as if it were a worthless a piece of garbage .
No , good Captain Pistol . Not here , sweet captain .
Someone whose mood is as foul as the weather , very troubled .
Who could think it happened any other way ? We 'll be grieving loudly when we hear that Duncan has died .
Love showed me the way -- the same thing that made me look for you in the first place . Love told me what to do , and I let love borrow my eyes . I 'm not a sailor , but if you were across the farthest sea , I would risk everything to gain you .
Oh , Cassio , where did you get this ? This is a gift from another woman , a new lover ! Now I know why you 've been staying away from me . Has it come to this ? Well , well .
And the greatest sorrow is mine too .
Get away from me , Satan ! Do n't try to tempt me !
Does everyone kill what they do n't love ?
If ? You lover of that damned whore , you 're talking to me of " ifs " ? You 're a traitor . --Off with his head . By Saint Paul , I swear I wo n't eat lunch until I see him beheaded . Lovell and Ratcliffe , make sure it gets done . The rest of you who love me , come with me .
The same thing .
Who 's that ? Who 's there ?
Who is the girl on the arm of that lucky knight over there ?
I 'll do well . The people are on my side , and I 'm in charge of the sea . My forces are growing , and everything I know tells me it 's all coming together . Mark Antony is at dinner in Egypt and wo n't be going outside to make war . Caesar loses supporters wherever he raises money . Lepidus flatters both of them , as they flatter him , but he does n't love them , and they do n't love him .
You should be smart enough to tell this to a doctor , not me , since if I treated him , he 'd just get angrier .
Truly , I could anger her to the core . She was a good-looking wench then . Does she still look good ?
No , father , but I did what you told me to do and sent back his letters and would n't let him visit me .
At dinner .
Let him become Caesar !
I hope it 's Othello .
I ca n't admit that , since you 'd have to compare his excellence to mine . But knowing a person well is a bit like knowing oneself .
Go on , I insist you take it .
I can do anything !
And to give you a taste of what 's in store for you , he told me to call you the thane of Cawdor . So hail , thane of Cawdor ! That title belongs to you now .
Are n't you Sir John Falstaff ?
Ah , the countess is coming ! An angel is walking on earth . But as for you , mister , what you 're saying is insane . This young man has worked for me for three months ; but more about that later . Take him away .
No , sir . Lady Olivia does n't want to have anything to do with foolishness . So she wo n't have a fool until she gets married . Fools are to husbands as anchovies are to sardines -- husbands are the bigger ones . I 'm not her fool . I just make words into whores for her .
Oh , my lord !
Buckingham , I need to have a word with you . Catesby has sounded Hastings out and found the prickly gentleman so opposed to our plan that he actually said he would die before he 'd agree to have his " master 's son , " as he put it so devotedly , lose the crown .
I 'm sorry if I offended you ; yes , very sorry .
I feel sorry for you . You 've come to face a ruthless enemy , an inhuman wretch incapable of pity , without any feelings of mercy .
We 'll all follow them , cousin .
No , come on , do n't make me play a woman . I 'm growing a beard .
No , my lord , I did n't see anything .
Ha , ha , ha ! Hey , You coward , why are n't you coming ?
How will that kill this marriage ?
Hey , let 's bet . Which one will start yammering first , Gonzalo or Adrian ?
How is my Kate ? Feeling blue , darling ?
We 've been betrayed ! Find out who did it !
Then he pulled a watch from his bag and , looking at it solemnly , said , " It 's ten o'clock . This way , we can see how the world moves . Only an hour ago it was nine , and in another hour it will be eleven . And so , from hour to hour we ripen , and from hour to hour we rot . And there 's a story behind that . " When I heard that motley fool moralizing on the subject of time , I began to crow like a rooster . Hearing a fool speaking so contemplatively made me laugh non-stop for an hour . Oh , noble fool ! A worthy fool ! Motley is the only thing to wear .
Do you want your head broken in ?
Go , take Sir John Falstaff away to jail , and take all his companions with him .
How are you , my royal lord ? How is your majesty doing ?
She creeps along . Moving or standing still , her bearing is about the same . She has a body , not a life . She 's more like a statue than a living , breathing human being .
Down , whore !
Oh , but it is , sir . No one but his valet ever saw it . His courage is hidden , and when it is revealed , it will shrink .
Alice , you have been to England and you know the language .
Well now , who are you ?
Near Mt . Misena .
May good luck follow you !
He loves them both .
Oh , my royal father !
A thousand times good night .
Do n't joke about his predictions . Pay attention .
For God 's sake , my lord , let 's be sure to be part of the group that meets the prince . Along the way , I 'll find an opportunity to separate him from the queen 's proud relatives , as step one in the plan we 've discussed .
You knew -- no one knew , no one knew as well as you did -- about my daughter 's plans to run away .
I 'm not myself . I 'm not here . This is n't Romeo -- he 's somewhere else .
Damn it , shut your mouth .
You would have been very shocked .
Then why does the Prince love him ?
Good Lord ! You 're using this as an excuse for not showing up at the Porcupine like you promised . I should have reprimanded you then for not bringing it , but you started fighting with me first .
We 're not going to run in our army , Monsieur Monster .
Come on , big brother ; you do n't know anything about fighting .
I wish you were someone else 's son . The whole world thought your father was an honorable man , but he was always my enemy . Your victory would have pleased me more if you 'd been someone else 's son . But good luck ; you are a brave young man . I wish you had told me you had a different father .
Oh , what a horrible day !
He does look like it .
But is he often like this ?
Yes , a snail . Because even though he 's slow , he carries his house on his head -- a better offer than you can make a woman , I think . Besides , he brings his fate with him .
Shame on you ; I 've already run out of patience with you all .
He looks angry .
My love for you is so pure and perfect , and I 'm in such a bad way , that I 'll be grateful for whatever leftover love you throw my way . Every once in a while , toss me a distracted smile , and I 'll live on that .
Is he here ?
Now listen to the agreement they made . The king of Naples , my arch - enemy , listens to my brother 's request , which was that the king , in exchange for the respect and money paid to him , would get rid of me and make my brother Duke of Milan instead . A treacherous army was gathered , and one fateful night at midnight , Antonio opened the gates of Milan , and in the pitch black had his officers rush out me and you , my dear daughter . You were crying .
Neighbors , hello .
Eros , send his treasure to him . Do it now . Do n't keep anything back , I insist . Write to him from me --I 'll sign it -- sending greetings and gentle good - byes . Say that I hope he never has cause to look for a new master . Oh , my bad luck has forced honest men to become traitors . Hurry . Enobarbus !
I can guess her answer .
Even in hell you could n't find a devil worse than Macbeth .
Go ahead .
Come on , then . Get down and swear it .
This is the roof under which Lorenzo said to meet him .
I 'll break words with you , sir . And since words are just wind , I 'll be breaking wind right in your face .
Beautiful Cordelia , you 're all the richer now that you 're poor . You 're more valuable now that you 're rejected and more loved now that you 're hated . I 'll take you and your wonderful virtues here and now , if it 's okay that I 'm picking up what others have thrown away . It 's so strange that in neglecting you so cruelly , the gods have made me love you so dearly . --King , the daughter you 've rejected is now mine , as Queen of France . No Duke of spineless Burgundy can take this treasure of a girl from me now . --Say goodbye to them , Cordelia , even though they 've been unkind to you . You 'll find a much better place in France than what you 're giving up here .
Nothing ?
That 's good advice .
I 'm afraid to think how I 'll be criticized for letting my natural affection for my father give way to my loyalty to you .
A Daniel has come to judgment , yes , a Daniel ! --Oh , wise young judge , I honor you !
The king is virtuous and kind .
Most noble brother , you have done me wrong .
The business you began here needs you as well -- especially the business with Cleopatra , which only you can attend to .
Well , why the hell are you asking me about the hostess of the tavern ?
Come on , hide , hide ! I stole Falstaff 's horse , and he 's rubbed the wrong way ; he 's fraying like cheap velvet .
I 'd rather bear with you than bear you . But if I did carry you , it would be no bear to bear , because I 'm pretty sure you do n't have any money .
Show me , show me .
No , he has n't .
Gratiano , where is everybody ? It 's nine o'clock ! Our friends are all waiting for you . There 's no masquerade tonight . The wind is blowing right , so Bassanio 's going onboard immediately . I 've sent twenty people to look for you .
If that were true , then I 'd know your secret . I admit I 'm only a woman , but nevertheless I 'm the woman Lord Brutus took for his wife . I admit I 'm only a woman , but I 'm still a woman from a noble family --I 'm Cato 's daughter . Do you really think I 'm no stronger than the rest of my sex , with such a father and such a husband ? Tell me your secrets . I wo n't betray them . I 've proved my trustworthiness by giving myself a voluntary wound here in my thigh . If I can bear that pain , then I can bear my husband 's secrets .
Enough , Captain . You 've stunned him .
What ? My old friend ? Could n't all this flesh hold onto a little life ? Poor Jack , farewell . I would rather have lost a more valuable soldier . If I were in love with vanity , I 'd really miss you . Death has n't taken anyone as fat today , though it has taken many better men in this vicious battle . I 'll have you embowelled soon ; till then , lie here in blood , by the great Percy .
Yes , we will . Let 's shake on it .
My lord acts just as crazy with love as you do .
Do n't worry about me not swearing enough .
It is , I promise .
Yes . And the look on his face is like the title page of a book : it hints at the tragic story within . His brow is lined with furrows , like a beach after a wild flood . Morton , did you come from Shrewsbury ?
Please , pretty young man , I 'd like to get to know you better .
Then will you notice the abundant valor of our Englishmen , who will embark on a second round of mischief like a ricocheting bullet , killing again as they fall to their deaths . Let me speak proudly : tell the Constable we 're only workaday soldiers . Our finery and shining metal are all rusty from long , painful marches in the rain . There 's not a strand of feather left in our whole army -- a good sign , I hope , that we wo n't fly away like birds -- and time on the field has made us slovenly . But , by God , our hearts are in good shape . And my poor soldiers tell me that before night they 'll be in cleaner clothes . If not , they 'll pull the bright new coats of the French over their heads and send them on their way . If they do this , as they will , God willing , my ransom will soon be raised . Herald , spare yourself . Do n't come again to ask for my ransom , good messenger . I swear the only ransom will be these bones of mine . And if the French get them in the state in which I intend to leave them , they wo n't be worth much use to anyone . Tell the constable that .
Here 's Decius Brutus . He 'll tell them so .
Thank you for all your efforts .
Is all of this about your father ?
Be loud and obnoxious . Do whatever it takes , just get the job done .
I 'm not crazy , but I 'm tied up tighter than a mental patient in a straitjacket . I 'm locked up in a prison and deprived of food . I 'm whipped and tortured -- Good evening , good fellow .
You 'll be my role model . Just as you got Milan , I 'll get Naples . Take out your sword . With one cut you can be through paying money to Naples . And as king I 'll love you forever .
Do n't shed even one tear . One of your tears is worth everything that was won and lost . Give me a kiss .
Yes , and Wall too .
Then she was even more an angel , and you 're an even blacker devil !
Do n't talk about dying . I wo n't even worry about dying for the next six months .
I will , Caesar .
Are you a married man or a bachelor ?
She 's a virtuous and holy lady . She ca n't possibly have done you any wrong .
Dreaming about this heroic exploit is driving him past his patience .
Hello , and greetings to you all .
She is welcome to stay .
I swear , you speak the truth . " For himself to ruin , " he says . Gentlemen , can any of you tell me where I can find young Romeo ?
Tranio , let 's go . One last thing , and this is up to you . You 'll have to woo Bianca like the rest . Do n't ask why . Just trust me --I know what I 'm doing .
That 's Othello 's ensign , I think .
Really , the priest was good enough , no matter what that old guy said .
Still , I 'm better off now , as a beggar who is openly hated , than when I was flattered to my face hated in secret . The lowliest and most dejected creatures live without fear and still harbor hope . The worst kind of change is when good fortune turns sour . At the bottom , any change is for the better . So I welcome this wind freely . I 've sunk as far down as I can go , so I 've got nothing more to fear from the weather .
But he 's young , and as long as he 's too young to become king , Richard , the duke of Gloucester , has power over him . Richard loves neither me nor any of you .
Here I have the thumb of a pilot who was drowned while trying to return home .
That I 'd take your advice rather than keep my own secret . Besides , you 're a sponge ! What is the son of a king supposed to say to a sponge ?
No , he 's a fine flower , truly , a flower .
I 'm sorry , my friend . The duke always gets it his way , and everyone knows you ca n't budge him once he 's made up his mind . I 'll try talking to him again .
What are you , a madman ? You annoying idiot , what Epidamnum ship is waiting for me ?
" And you 're wasting your time with that foolish knight -- "
Is it true , sir , that the Duke of Cornwall was killed as they say ?
He adores you . He cries and groans and sighs .
You 're in your own kingdom , sir .
Not a poor boy , but the rich Jew 's servant , who wants , as my father will explain --
I 'll be happy to keep him in my house , but not a single knight .
Somebody help me over here !
Honest gentleman , I do n't know what kind of family you 're from .
Be patient , because you 're staying with me . Go now , Lord Constable and all you princes , and quickly bring us news of England 's defeat .
Today was the day I breathed my first breath . Time has come round , and I 'll end where I began . My life has run its circle . What can you see , boy ?
Ha ! Why ?
No , I do n't -- except as a friend .
Hello !
Please , keep quiet . This is not the way to act . Do n't you see you 're upsetting him ? Leave me alone with him .
Francis !
Lucius !
Like gambling , sir ?
Thank you very much .
But when he got all hot and bothered over Hermia , his promises melted away . I 'll go tell Demetrius that Hermia is running away tomorrow night . He 'll run after her . If he 's grateful to me for this information , it 'll be worth my pain in helping him pursue my rival Hermia . At least I 'll get to see him when he goes , and then again when he comes back .
That 's what I said , " de elbow , de nick , et de sin . " What are the words for le pied and la robe ?
when she left , did n't you tell me to stop being friends with low types like her , because before long we 'd be married and I 'd be a proper lady ? And did n't you kiss me and tell me to lend you thirty shillings ? Put your hand on the bible and deny it , if you dare .
There is a river in Macedon , and there is likewise a river in Monmouth . The river in Monmouth is called Wye , but the name of the other river has gone out of my head . Nevertheless , it 's all one -- the two rivers are as alike as my fingers are to my fingers , and there are salmon in both . If you look closely at Alexander 's life , Harry of Monmouth 's stands up fairly well by comparison -- for there are analogies in everything . Alexander , God knows and you know , in his rages and his furies and his wraths and his angers and his moods and his displeasures and his indignations , and also being a little the worse for drink , killed his best friend Cleitus in a drunken rage , see .
I 'm getting hysterical . I feel my stomach squeezing up against my heart . Calm down , you belong lower down ! --Where is this daughter of mine ?
Listen , please , give me the necklace . This gentleman 's ready to go . The wind is right and it 's high tide , and I 've delayed him a long time already .
Do you know any , count ?
Yes , I really think so .
better support and stronger approval . The stain of its obtainment dies now , with me . On me , the crown seemed like an honor grabbed with a violent hand , and many people lived to remind me that they had helped me take it . Eventually , those daily reminders grew into war and bloodshed , doing damage to the peace . You can see how much pain it 's caused me as I 've fought my foes . My entire reign has been like a play , in which we rehash that disagreement . Now my death changes the show . What I bought , you will inherit . You 'll wear the crown by right of succession . But even though you have a firmer claim to the crown than I had , it 's not firm enough . Anger is still fresh , and my former friends -- whom you must make into your friends -- have only recently been disarmed . It was their power that first got me the crown , and I feared that same power could take me down . To avoid that , I defeated their rebellion , and planned to lead an army to the Holy Land . I thought that , with nothing to occupy themselves , they 'd start eyeing me and my crown . Therefore , my Harry , make it your policy to focus the distracted minds of the people with foreign wars . Military actions abroad will make people forget about troubling matters in the past . I 'd say more , but my lungs are so worn out that I do n't have the strength to speak . God forgive me for how I came by the crown , and may he grant that you enjoy it in peace .
Enough ! Do n't worry , I have it all figured out . No one has seen us yet , and no one knows what we look like -- which of us is master and which servant . It 's obvious : You will be me , Tranio -- live in my house , instruct the servants and do everything in my place just as I would . I , meanwhile , will impersonate some other made-up fellow -- some guy from Florence or Naples , or some poor guy from Pisa . There ! That 's a plan . Take off what you 're wearing and put on my hat and cloak .
All right , stop this . You sound like a pack of wolves howling at the moon . I 'll help you , if I can . If I could love you , I would . All of you , meet me here tomorrow . If I 'm ever going to marry a woman , I 'll marry you . And I am getting married tomorrow . If I will ever satisfy a man , I 'll satisfy you . And you will get married tomorrow . If the thing you desire will make you happy , I 'll make you happy . And you 'll get married tomorrow . By the love you have for Rosalind , come back tomorrow . By the love you have for Phoebe , come here tomorrow . --And by my love for no woman , I 'll also be here tomorrow . So , goodbye for now . You all know what to do .
Well , are n't we strict ! Okay , I guess I 'll have to wait . And watch , too . For unless I 'm very much mistaken , our fancy musician is turning romantic !
You are a fool . --You , niece , prepare to leave . On my honor and by my word , if you outstay the ten days , you will die .
I have already .
Health , peace , and happiness to my royal father !
Oh , the things men dare to do ! The things men are allowed to do ! The things men do daily , not knowing what they 're doing !
How did he go crazy ?
You get out , you rotten Althea 's dream !
What 's going on ? Raining inside while it 's dry outside ? How 's the King ?
Is n't my vest just as clean and fresh as the day I put it on ? In a way , I mean .
Let him drop dead , that hot-tempered jerk ! Do n't let him in : he 's got the foulest mouth in England .
Signior Hortensio , I 've often heard of your total devotion to Bianca . So , now that I 've seen with my own eyes proof of her worthlessness , I 'm willing to join you in swearing her off for good , if you like .
Your pile would be too heavy for me to bear .
I 'll still follow Antony , even though the odds are against him and good sense tells me I should go the other way .
One who used to be a woman but -- bless her soul -- is dead now .
You look like something 's bothering you . Cheer up . Our music - and - dance spectacle is over . These actors were all spirits , as I told you , and they 've all melted into thin air . And just like the whole empty
Many thanks , Signior Gremio . Welcome , good Cambio . As for you , sir , you would appear to be a stranger . May I be so bold as to ask your reason for coming ?
Well , make a fire , then . I think I 'm getting delirious . Where 's the cook ? Is supper ready ? Is the house fixed up , the floor covered , the cobwebs swept out of the corners , the servingmen in their new work clothes and the household servants each in his wedding suit ? Are all the cups and glasses in their places , the tablecloths laid out -- everything in order ?
In that case it 's good to be a post .
Oh God !
I 'm sure I can guess . I have been in love too , you know .
What 's that trumpet ?
I just ca n't believe any of this . I do n't know what to say .
Write down that Prince John is a villain . Why , that 's flat-out perjury -- to call a prince 's brother a villain .
Do n't cry anymore , ladies , do n't cry anymore Men have always been deceivers , One foot on a ship and one on the shore , Never devoted to anything . So do n't cry like that , just let them go And be happy and carefree forever , Turning all your sad sounds around When you sing " Hey , nonny nonny " instead . Do n't sing more sad songs About being down in the dumps For men have been committing this kind of fraud Ever since the first summer trees had leaves . So do n't cry like that , just let them go And be happy and carefree forever , Turning all your sad sounds around When you sing " Hey , nonny nonny " instead .
Well , look here ! All this mess over nothing ! What 's the matter ?
You are thane of Glamis and Cawdor , and you 're going to be king , just like you were promised . But I worry about whether or not you have what it takes to seize the crown . You are too full of the milk of human kindness to strike aggressively at your first opportunity . You want to be powerful , and you do n't lack ambition , but you do n't have the mean streak that these things call for . The things you want to do , you want to do like a good man . You do n't want to cheat , yet you want what does n't belong to you . There 's something you want , but you 're afraid to do what you need to do to get it . You want it to be done for you . Hurry home so I can persuade you and talk you out of whatever 's keeping you from going after the crown . After all , fate and witchcraft both seem to want you to be king .
If he 's not in love with a woman , then you ca n't trust the usual symptoms . He brushes his hat in the mornings . What do you think that means ?
At this point I , Snout , play a wall . But not just any wall . I want you to understand that I 'm pretending to be a kind of wall that has a little hole in it . The lovers Pyramus and Thisbe often whispered very secretly through that hole . This clay , this cement , and this stone that I 'm carrying around show that I 'm that wall . It 's the truth . And this is the crack , right side and left side , through which the frightened lovers will be whispering .
I 'll get him now .
I 'd rather have you swear by your reputation as a dishonest thief .
Alas , he is too young . Yet he seems capable .
And when she speaks , does n't her voice stir up passion ?
Then , gentlemen , we can count on trouble .
Do I mean to go on breathing ?
Tell me what a drunk is like , fool .
I kiss your hand , but not in flattery , Caesar . I ask you to repeal Publius Cimber 's banishment immediately .
What 's going on here , you secret , evil , midnight hags ? What are you doing ?
Would n't you spit at me , and spurn me , and throw our marriage vows in my face ? Would n't you tear the mark off my whorish forehead , cut the wedding ring off my finger , and swear to divorce me ? I know you would , so go ahead . For I have , in fact , committed adultery , and my blood has been contaminated by lust . Because if marriage has made us one , then when you cheat , you poison my flesh as well -- your contagion makes me a prostitute . So stay faithful to me and return to your marriage bed . That way , my reputation will be protected and your honor will be intact .
Damn it , you 're not listening to me ! I never dreamed this was happening -- if you find out I did , you can go ahead and hate me .
A veteran commander and a very kind gentleman . Tell me , what does he think of our situation ?
I will , my lord .
Stay close by when we wake him up , ma'am . I 'm sure he will stay under control .
That 's kind of the King . We know all too well about the promises the King makes , and the ways he keeps his word . My father , my uncle , and I put that crown on his head . And when he had barely twenty-six men supporting him , when no one cared about him , when he was wretched and low , a poor , forsaken criminal trying to sneak home , my father welcomed him . When he swore an oath to God , weeping and speaking passionately , that he had come back to England only to reclaim his father 's title and make peace with King Richard , my father took pity on him , swore to help him and did so . When the country 's most important men saw that Northumberland was on his side , they came to see Henry , and bowed down to him . They met him in towns , cities , villages ; they waited for him on bridges , stood in the streets , lay gifts before him , swore their loyalty , pledged the support of their sons , followed him like servants . Soon enough , he began to understand his power . He overstepped the promise he 'd made to my father at Ravenspurgh , when his blood was still humble . And then , suddenly , he took it upon himself to reform certain laws and strict decrees that weighed too heavily on the kingdom . He made angry speeches about the abuses we were suffering , and seemed to weep over the country 's problems . And with this face , this mask of righteousness , he won everyone 's hearts . Then he went even further , and cut off the heads of all of Richard 's deputies , who stayed behind to run the country while Richard was waging war in Ireland .
The sun glints off our armor . Awake , my lords !
Maybe you know more than I do . But people often screw things up trying to make them better .
Your vote will be as strong as anyone 's in the reordering of the government .
I hope it works out for the best , Lepidus . So we are in agreement . Please have the contract written up so we can all sign it .
Break anything here and I 'll break your head .
Throw me in the gutter ? I 'll throw you in the gutter . You will ? You will ? You bastardly cheat ! Murder ! Murder ! Oh , you honeysuckle criminal ! You 're going to kill God 's sheriffs , and the King 's ? Oh , you honey - seed creep ! You 're a honey - seed , a man - killer , and a woman - killer .
Never , never . Let 's go ! We 'll burn his body in the holy place and use the brands to set the traitors ' houses on fire . Take up the body .
By eight o'clock . Is that the latest we can do it ?
My lord , calm him down . Let him take that guy inside too .
How long has he been possessed like this ?
Oh , Horatio , I 'll bet you a thousand bucks the ghost was right . Did you notice ?
Oh , just a young lady and already stuffed ! That 's a nice way to catch a cold .
Do n't even bother to ask the reasons . Just let him rant and rave . He 's senile .
It would be excellent if they could make a man halfway between Don John and Benedick . One of them is too much like a painting of a man -- he never speaks -- and the other is too much like a spoiled little boy , always chattering .
What do you mean by that ? " Mend " me , you impertinent fellow ? !
No , he 's a devil -- a devil , I tell you ! An utter fiend .
You do n't see anything ?
Oh , here he is . Grab him . --Sir , your most dear daughter --
Oh , sir , pardon me !
I was awake . I 've been up all night . Do I know these men who are with you ?
You ca n't see a reputation . A lot of people do n't even deserve the reputations they have . But a handkerchief --
What , should I stab him while he sleeps ?
God bless you , Sir John . May God bring you good luck , and bring us peace . When you come back , pay us
Wrong - headed slaves , the King of kings says in his Ten Commandments , " Thou shalt not murder . " Will you defy God and obey a man ? Be careful . God takes revenge on those who break His laws .
Sir , do you recognize this glove ?
And consider the possible consequences of fighting against us , in the hopes of gaining a greater fortune .
Shylock , although I never lend or borrow with interest , I 'm willing to break that habit to help a friend in need . Does he know how much you need ?
You 're right , Banquo . Macbeth is every bit as valiant as you say , and I am satisfied with these praises of him . Let 's follow after him , now that he has gone ahead to prepare our welcome . He is a man without equal .
Who is the one whose grief is so loud and clear , whose words of sadness make the planets stand still in the heavens as if they 've been hurt by what they 've heard ? It 's me , Hamlet the Dane .
I 've got exactly one calm drop of blood in my body , and it proclaims that I 'm a bastard , says my father was betrayed , and stamps the label " whore " on the pure forehead of my devoted mother .
Caesar must realize that when a man as powerful as Antony begins to rage , he has been pursued to the point of collapse . Do n't give him time to catch his breath . Take advantage of his unreasonable rage . Anger does not protect the angry well .
We 'll be there , and there we 'll rehearse courageously and wonderfully , truly obscenely . Work hard , know your lines . Goodbye .
So you 're around Lady Luck 's waist ?
You ca n't get any more money out of me right now . If you tell your lady I 'm here to speak with her , and bring her out with you when you come back , you might make me more generous .
I know an angel who can read your mind . But okay , off to England ! Good - bye , dear mother .
Sir , sir !
Me , sir ? I never saw her till now .
Would you tie me to a whole world of worries ? Well , call them back again . I am not made of stone ; I am affected by all these kind pleas , though it goes against my conscience and my soul .
I 'll tell my master this .
Halt !
I 'm going to take it from you now . That 's how it is .
Oh , Mother Nature , why did you create lions ? A mean and awful lion has deflowered my darling , who is -- no , no , who was the most beautiful lady who ever lived , or loved , or liked , or looked . Come on , tears , pour over me ! Come on out , sword , and wound Pyramus in the chest -- yes , right here on the left side where his heart is .
Please come . Will you ?
It 's not earlier than that , I tell you . The lusty hand of the clock is now pricking noon .
Then I 'll really give it to you .
I 'll kiss your feet . I 'll vow to be your faithful subject .
Tell him he 's not going to speak with me .
Here , my lord .
Pardon me , Caius Cassius . Even Caesar 's enemies would say the same . From a friend , it 's a cool assessment -- no more than that .
Coward ! Give me the daggers . Dead and sleeping people ca n't hurt you any more than pictures can . Only children are afraid of scary pictures . If Duncan bleeds I 'll paint the servants ' faces with his blood . We must make it seem like they 're guilty .
Ah , I 'd forgotten all about that ! It 's been decided .
Ca n't you find a reason without my giving you one ?
Something in my heart tells me that no peace we agree to could possibly last .
I 'm proud to be Sir Rowland 's son -- his youngest son -- and I would never change that , not even to be Frederick 's adopted heir .
And I 'm going to sleep .
He ca n't possibly be such a monster --
What 's the news ! Is he dead ?
Oh , my poor brother ! But maybe by some fluke he was saved too .
I 'm begging you , good Mercutio , let 's call it a day . It 's hot outside , and the Capulets are wandering around . If we bump into them , we 'll certainly get into a fight . When it 's hot outside , people become angry and hot - blooded .
What time is it ?
That 's a nice hand you dealt me . But if it 's not double - dealing , sir , I wish you 'd deal me another .
You must save yourself , my lord . The young Laertes , like the ocean when it floods the shore and devours the lowlands , is leading a rebellion against your government . The crowd calls him " lord " and shouts , " We want Laertes to be king ! " It 's as if they were starting the world from scratch right now , throwing out the traditions and ancient customs that are the support of every word we utter . They throw their caps in the air and yell , " Laertes will be king ! Laertes king ! "
He 's dreaming . I know they 're in Rome together , hoping for Antony to return . Lecherous Cleopatra , may all the charms of love soften those withered lips ! Join your witchcraft with your beauty , and let Antony 's lust combine with both . Keep this libertine occupied with endless debauchery . Keep his brain drunk and his appetite unsatisfied , so that sleeping and eating make him drowsy and forgetful of his duties , like the Lethe does .
He 's still sharp when it comes to carrying out a bold or noble enterprise , though he puts on this show of stupidity . He speaks roughly , but what he says is smart , and his roughness makes other people enjoy listening to him .
From down here , I thought his eyes looked like full moons . He had a thousand noses and twisted horns , like wave crests in a storm at sea . It was some devil . You lucky old man , it seems that the gods have saved your life . They love to perform miracles so that humans will worship them .
Let them be in the hands --
Where have you been , sister ?
Sir , please , do n't be angry . But if your soles are worn out , I can mend you .
We sure have , we sure have , we sure have . I swear , Sir John , we sure have . Our slogan was " Down the hatch , boys ! " Come , let 's have lunch , let 's have lunch . Jesus , the things we 've seen ! Come , come .
And does this prospect of good fortune make you happy ?
My voice is ragged . I know I wo n't please you .
It was the lark , the bird that sings at dawn , not the nightingale . Look , my love , what are those streaks of light in the clouds parting in the east ? Night is over , and day is coming . If I want to live , I must go . If I stay , I 'll die .
He is worth no more than that . They tell me he died well , and settled his scores . With that , I hope God is with him ! Here comes better news .
I am the only daughter in my father 's family , and all the brothers too -- but I 'm not completely sure about that . Anyway , sir , should I go see the lady ?
What happened , general ? Did you hit your head ?
What , are n't you a Christian ? The Bible says Adam dug in the ground . How could he dig without arms ? I 'll ask you another question . If you ca n't answer it --
You 've become Caesar 's right hand man , Maecenas ! It 's good to see you too , Agrippa .
Toss him down , Bardolph , like a coin on a game board . He does nothing but talk a bunch of nothing , so he 's going to count for nothing here .
Our poor father , Clarence !
Let 's take a little walk in the orchard before dinner . You are all most welcome here ; please make yourselves at home .
Are you speaking from your heart ?
True . Those who were bitter enemies of your father in his time have turned their bitterness to sweetness , serving you loyally and wholeheartedly .
Yes , but I 'm afraid I 'm in more trouble than ever .
creet . She does n't want Orsino 's ring ! Orsino never sent her a ring . I 'm the man she wants . If that 's true , which it is , she might as well be in love with a dream , the poor lady . Now I understand why it 's bad to wear disguises . Disguises help the devil do his work . It 's so easy for a good-looking but deceitful man to make women fall in love with him . It 's not our fault -- we women are weak . We ca n't help what we 're made of . Ah , how will this all turn out ? My lord loves her , and . poor me , I love him just as much . And she 's deluded enough to be in love with me . What can possibly fix this situation ? I 'm pretending to be a man , so my love for the Duke is hopeless . And since I 'm a woman -- too bad I 'm a woman --Olivia 's love for me is hopeless as well ! Oh , only time can sort out this mess . I ca n't figure it out by myself !
He is the Archbishop of York , no ?
But what can be done to prevent it ?
What 's the matter , lady ?
What woman in the city am I talking about when I say that the clothes on a city - woman 's unworthy back are rich enough to suit a prince ? Who can say I mean just her when all her neighbors are exactly like her ? And when some lowlife protests that his fancy clothes are n't my problem , is n't he basically admitting that I 'm talking about him ? Well , then . Tell me how I 've wronged him . If I was right about him , he 's the one who 's done wrong . If he is n't guilty of the faults I 'm talking about , well then , my accusations fly by like wild geese , whom no one owns , since they do n't apply to any man . But who is this ?
The thane of Cawdor has lost what the noble Macbeth has won .
Is he here ?
And I 'm her father as well . But oh , how odd it is to have to ask for my child 's forgiveness !
Yes , go ahead and moan , because you killed the sweetest , most innocent woman who ever lived !
You have to stop talking like this .
Sir , the king --
I did n't , either . But how wonderful that she should be so fond of Signior Benedick , whom she has always appeared to hate .
Did you mention that Edward 's children are bastards ?
Oh God , did Romeo 's hand shed Tybalt 's blood ?
Hamlet wrote this letter to Ophelia ?
Well done . My friends and brothers in this great undertaking , I have to share with you that I 've received new letters from Northumberland . They have a chilling purpose , tone , and content . He says that he wishes he could be here in person , with an army as strong someone of his rank should have , but he could n't raise one . So he 's going to go to Scotland to increase his power . He prays that your armies will prevail against the terrible power of the enemy .
My worthiest kinsman ! Just this moment I was feeling guilty for not having thanked you enough . You have done so much for me so fast that it has been impossible to reward you properly . If you deserved less , then perhaps my payment would have matched your deeds ! All I can say is that I owe you more than I can ever repay .
You seem to think no one outside of your bedroom knows what you wish .
Who 's knocking ?
Goodbye , gentlemen .
Send for him , dear uncle .
My lord , here is the entrance .
I won Demetrius so easily , as if he were a precious diamond I just found lying around . It 's mine because I found it , but I feel like someone else could easily come and claim it was hers .
If I 'm a buzzard , you 're a turtledove .
You 've done well at sea .
Well , other men have bad luck too . Antonio , as I heard in Genoa --
Most kind messenger , tell great Caesar that through his deputy I kiss his conquering hand . Tell him I am ready to lay my crown at his feet and kneel before him . Tell him -- whose decrees are obeyed by the whole world -- that I will accept the fate he chooses for Egypt .
Why would they do that , my lord ?
You saw my master wink and laugh at you ?
Nobody but the fool , who 's trying to soothe the wounds in the king 's heart with jokes .
Who 's there ? Who 's shouting " murder " ?
It 's a perilous wound , like losing a limb . And yet , truly , it 's not that bad ; the loss of my father seems worse than it is . After all , is it a good idea to bet all our resources on one throw of the dice ? Or to gamble such a rich stake on a single hazardous event ? No , because that would mean we had reached the end of our hope , and the very limit of our luck .
No , the man who cannot extol the virtues of my horse from dawn to dusk is not particularly clever . It 's a subject as worthy of endless discussion as the changing sea . If each grain of sand had a tongue to eulogize , my horse would be a topic for them all . He is a subject for a king to contemplate , and for a king 's king to ride on , and for the world at large -- both friend and stranger -- to stop whatever they are doing and marvel at . I once wrote a sonnet in his praise which began , " Wonder of nature -- "
My lord ?
of patience . He will think that his bed has become a conference table for discussing your problem -- he wo n't be able to get away from it . I 'll bring up your name at every moment . So cheer up . I 'm your advocate , and I 'd rather die than give up on you .
My brother just wooed Hero and now has taken her father inside to tell him his feelings . The ladies have followed Hero , but one masked man remains .
In that case , leave our cousin Katherine here with us . She is our principal demand -- one of the first points of the treaty .
Ha !
Stop fooling around . My mind is confused . But I 'll do my best to give you a straight answer , as you wish -- or rather , as my mother wishes . Okay , to the point . My mother , you say ... ?
I 'm headed for your niece , sir . She 's the reason I 'm here .
Spoken like a king . Take whatever you want : enjoy yourselves ! Knocking is heard offstage . Hey , see who 's at the door there ! Who 's knocking ?
I 've heard all about you women and your cosmetics too . God gives you one face , but you paint another on top of it . You dance and prance and lisp ; you call God 's creations by pet names , and you excuse your sexpot ploys by pleading ignorance . Come on , I wo n't stand for it anymore . It 's driven me crazy . I hereby declare we will have no more marriage . Whoever is already married will stay married -- all but one person . Everyone else will have to stay single . Get yourself to a convent , fast .
I swear , I 'm going .
The trumpets have blown twice .
Go ahead if you want , but remember that crying does n't suit a man .
If it pleases your Majesty , it is the token of a man I must fight with , if he 's still alive .
What would I do besides good ?
Oh no , not if you say it right . I do n't want you to say he 's a sex fiend , that 's not what I mean . Just mention his faults lightly , so they make him seem like a free spirit who 's gone a little too far .
Ah ha ! Hey , let 's have some music here ! Play your flutes ! For if the king does n't like the play , Then he does n't like it , we may say . Come on , music !
No , I did n't , but I did every night for the past year .
How are you feeling now ?
Do you see her , sir ?
Then die and be damned ! And I 'm giving the finger to your friendship !
But who told you to come here and join us ?
If I 'm not mistaken , you 're Harry Monmouth .
It did , sir . It got me right in the throat . But I got even with drink . I was too strong for it . Although it weakened my legs and made me unsteady , I managed to vomit it out and laid it flat on the ground .
Goodbye . After that lecture of yours , I 'll start talking a lot .
No , it has n't , my lord .
Oh , darling Phoebe , if you ever fall in love with some fresh face , then you 'll know about the invisible wounds that love 's sharp arrows can make .
The gods can hear you lying ! But if there ever were such a man , simple dreams could never contain his greatness . When it comes to creating fantastical things , the natural world cannot compete with imagination . And yet , if the natural world could create something like Antony , it would have a masterpiece to rival anything fantasy might construct . Antony would easily outshine all imaginary beings .
Yes , yes , Antipholus : look bewildered and frown at me . You 've given away all your sweet looks to some other woman --I am not Adriana nor your wife . There was a time when you 'd freely tell me that words were never music to your ear unless I said them , that objects never pleased your eye unless I showed them to you , that touches never pleased your hands unless they were my touches , and that food never tasted sweet to you unless I had prepared it . How is it , my husband -- oh , how is it -- that you have become a stranger to yourself ? I say yourself because you are a stranger to me now , but when we are indivisible and united in one body , I am better than the best part of you . Ah , do n't tear yourself away from me ! For you should know , my love , that it would be as easy to let a drop of water fall into the churning sea and then fish it out again , unmingled and undiminished , as it would be to take yourself from me without taking me out of myself as well . How deeply would it cut you if you heard that I had been cheating on you and that my body -- which is sworn for you only -- had been contaminated by vile lust ?
I wish your highness good health , and happy news beyond the report I have to deliver ! Prince John sends his respects : Mowbray , the Archbishop , Hastings and the rest are under arrest . There are no more rebels anywhere ; the olive branch of peace has been extended everywhere . Here 's a letter explaining what happened . When you have time , you can read it and learn every detail .
You toad , where is your brother Clarence and his son , little Ned Plantagenet ?
No , not at all . It 's a perfectly ordinary experience for us to feel sorry for our enemies .
Well , hello there , Horatio !
Anyone who puts his trust in such documents is a sheep or a calf . I 'll talk to this guy . --Excuse me , sir , whose grave is this ?
royal fellowship of death ! Where is the number of our English dead ?
I have a good plan . And tomorrow is the wrestling match .
What are you doing , you stupid officer ? Do you take some kind of pleasure in seeing a sick man harm himself ?
Signor Antonio ?
I can justify that better than you can justify sleeping with Portia 's African servant . The Moor is pregnant with your child , Launcelot .
Like a mouse caught in my own trap , Osric . I 've been killed by my own evil tricks .
You 're on . What 's the prize ?
We ca n't be in two places at once , both here and there ! Cheers , boys . Be quick for a while and let the one who lives the longest take everything .
You say you do n't know what the girl thinks . That 's a rocky road to be riding . I do n't like it .
I 'll forget it , and you 'll have to stand there forever . I 'll only remember how much I love your company .
I remember him well , and my memory tells me that he deserves your praise .
Just a bit of my dry humor , sir .
I get all this . And I also understand how fashion changes so quickly that a man 's clothing never gets a chance to wear itself out . But you 're all wound up about fashion , too . Otherwise , why would you stray from your story to blabber on about it ?
Two weeks and a few odd days .
You were supposed to be proving that there is n't time for everything .
O Lord , the day is lost ! All is lost !
Large and increasing . But his navy rules the sea .
Take good care of him . Take him to my sleeping area . The moon looks sad to me . When she cries , all the little flowers cry too . They 're sad because someone is prevented from having sex -- or is having it against her will . Keep my lover quiet . Bring him to me in silence .
A piece of ice . Trust me , you could slide all the way from my shoulder to my heel taking no more of a running start than the distance between my head and my neck . Start the fire , good Curtis .
You 're hidden away , sweetheart , dressed up like a boy . Come on quickly . Time flies at night , and we 're late for Bassanio 's feast .
Sir , is it possible that a person could fall in love so suddenly ?
Caesar and Lepidus declared war against Pompey .
Will either of you give him the message that I 'm challenging him to a duel ?
still fight you and embed your lies back in your hellish heart . --Trumpets , blow !
Welcome . Please have a seat . Are you familiar with the case currently before the court ?
Teach me to forget to think !
You useless bastard -- you 're like the letter " z , " a totally unnecessary addition to the alphabet . --My lord , please let me grind this lumpy lowlife into a powder and use it to plaster up the bathroom walls . --You did n't kill me because I 'm so old , you fawning dog ?
God , what a burden on you I must have been !
It 's true , that was n't such a nice thing to do . But I wish I could say that 's the last time he 'll do it !
Conrade , I say !
Yes , if the devil tempts you to do good .
This oily rascal is as famous as St. Paul 's Cathedral . Go , call him out here .
No , no , I wo n't class you with my servants , since -- to be frank with you -- my servants are terrible . But tell me as my friends , what are you doing here at Elsinore ?
He did . I heard it myself .
Good . I 'll expect you .
Hang our flags on the outer walls . Everyone keeps yelling , " Here they come ! " Our castle is strong enough to laugh off their seige . They can sit out there until they die of hunger and disease . If it were n't for the fact that so many of our soldiers revolted and joined them , we could have met them out in front of the castle , man to man , and beaten them back to England .
He would just see me for what I am , a person amazed to hear you talking about Naples . He does hear me , and that makes me cry . I myself am the King of Naples , since I saw with my own eyes -- these eyes that have n't been dry since -- my father killed in a shipwreck .
A dog from that house will make me angry enough to take a stand . If I pass one of them on the street , I 'll take the side closer to the wall and let him walk in the gutter .
Please , go away .
If God had decided to treat me like Job , making me sick and covered with sores , reducing me to abject poverty , selling me into slavery and destroying all my hopes , I would have found some way to accept it with patience . But instead He 's made me a laughingstock for everyone in our time to point at and scorn ! Even that I could put up with . But instead , my wife , who 's supposed to
A duke who is noble in name and character .
I 'm going now . The murder is as good as done . The bell is telling me to do it . Do n't listen to the bell , Duncan , because it summons you either to heaven or to hell .
My lord .
Take me off to jail ?
I swear , it must be thirty years .
If you wo n't listen to reason , I 'll have to die .
He 'd walk the whole wide world with me . Leave me alone to go convince him . Let 's go gather our jewels and money . We 'll figure out the best time and safest route to avoid being found out by my father 's guards , whom he 'll send out as soon as he discovers I 've gone . Now , we go contentedly to freedom -- not banishment .
I 'm really a lord ? And do I really have a wife like that ? Is this a dream ? Or has everything up till now been a dream ? I do n't seem to be asleep : I can see and hear and speak . I can smell sweet smells and feel things that are soft to the touch . I 'll be damned ! I guess I really am a lord and not a tinker , and not Christopher Sly , either . Well , bring my wife to me . Oh , and do n't forget the beer .
But you began so rudely . Who are you ? What do you want ?
My liege , this man is a villain and a traitor , who -- see , your Grace - -has struck the glove which your Majesty took from Alencon 's helmet .
Look , she 's come home from confession with a happy look on her face .
Your strange story made me groggy .
Arrest the wretch . I think he means to bamboozle someone in this city while pretending to be me .
" Do n't even ask why I call you that , because I wo n't give you any explanation . "
Arise . You need not kneel to me . Please rise , Queen .
The beautiful Rosaline whom you love so much will be at Capulet 's traditional feast , along with every beautiful woman in Verona . Go there and compare her objectively to some other girls I 'll show you . The woman who you think is as beautiful as a swan is going to look as ugly as a crow to you .
That 's what everyone would be thinking . And what 's great about you is that you think just the way everyone else does : nobody sticks to popular opinion quite as well as you . Everyone would think I was a hypocrite , indeed . And , your honor , what makes you think that ?
He did , and I gave it to him .
How are you , Hamlet ?
My goodness , captain ! Those are strong words !
Yes , it 's just clothing .
Why is that ? Did I say you were an honest man ? Because , setting aside the fact that I 'm knight and a soldier , I 'd be nothing but a liar if I said that .
You make fat bastards , Mistress Doll .
Oh Stephano , do you have any more of that wine ?
Is he angry ?
Marriage is the crown Juno wears , It 's a holy bond of domesticity . It 's marriage that populates each town , So marriage should be honored . Honor , honor , and fame Is due to Hymen , the god of every town .
Are we going to let this guy live ?
No , no , they would n't .
No , Sir Walter . We 'll stand down for a while . Go to the King . My uncle will bring him our demands early in the morning , provided that you arrange for a guarantee that he 'll be allowed to return safely . And so , farewell .
And we will raise your wages . I like this place . I could see myself wasting time here .
You 'll be my wife , dearest , and I 'll serve you forever .
Just now he called to me from behind a red window shade , and I could n't tell his face from the curtain ! Finally I saw his eyes , and I thought he 'd made two holes in a whore 's skirt and peeped through them !
It 's lovely to see you .
As mad as the waves and the wind when they struggle together in a storm . In an insane rage , he hears something behind the tapestry , whips out his sword , shouts , " A rat , a rat ! " and in his deranged state of mind he kills the good old man , who is still hidden .
I thank you , Sir John , with all my heart . I am indebted to you for your last sermon . By next week , I 'll be able to pay you .
My beautiful warrior !
It never occurred to me to imagine there was anything more to know .
Alas , one angry look from you would be worse than twenty of your relatives with swords . Just look at me kindly , and I 'm invincible against their hatred .
I beg you , listen well . I heard a noise like a scuffle . The wind brings it from the Capitol .
My good lord , I 've rented land from you and your father for eighty years .
Take away the stools , the sideboards , and the plates . You , good friend , save me a piece of marzipan , and if you love me , have the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell . Antony and Potpan !
Heaven , for a long time you have frowned upon the hatred between them . Smile , then , on this beautiful union . What traitor hears me and does n't say amen ? England has long been so crazy that she was willing to hurt herself , brothers blindly shed their brothers ' blood , fathers rashly slaughtered their own sons , sons were forced to butcher their fathers . All this further divided the two families , which were already so badly divided . Now let Richmond and Elizabeth , the true heirs of each royal house , be joined together ! And let their heirs , if you are willing , God , enrich the future with peace and plenty ! Gracious Lord , blunt the swords of those traitors who mean to tear poor England apart again ! Let those who would mar this fair land 's peace with treason die before they can enjoy its wealth . Civil wounds now can heal , and peace can live again . So that England may live a long life like this , let God say amen !
Do n't hurt me . Oh !
If I were sure I was wide awake , I 'd try to tell you . We were fast asleep and somehow -- we do n't know how -- we were stowed below deck , where we heard lots of roaring , shrieking , howling , and jingling chains . The sounds were so horrible that we woke up liberated , and saw our wonderful ship safe and sound . The master was dancing with joy to see it . In an instant we were separated from them , as if in a dream , and brought here in a daze .
Welcome , kinsman Vernon , from the bottom of my heart .
If it 's true that music makes people more in love , keep playing . Give me too much of it , so I 'll get sick of it and stop loving . Play that part again ! It sounded sad . Oh , it sounded like a sweet breeze blowing gently over a bank of violets , taking their scent with it . That 's enough . Stop . It does n't sound as sweet as it did before . Oh , love is so restless ! It makes you want everything , but it makes you sick of things a minute later , no matter how good they are . Love is so vivid and fantastical that nothing compares to it .
It was a rough night .
Get out of here , you son of a bitch ! Bring us wood , and be quick about it . Are you shrugging and making faces , you evil thing ? If you neglect my orders or do them grudgingly , I 'll double you up with pains and cramps , and make all your bones ache , and make you scream so loud that the wild animals will tremble when they hear you .
I will .
Yes , sir , we 're part of her entourage .
The actors are here .
Oh , just lies , sir . The sly writer says here that old men have gray beards , their faces are wrinkled , their eyes full of gunk , and that they have no wisdom and weak thighs . Of course I believe it all , but I do n't think it 's good manners to write it down , since you yourself , sir , would grow as old as I am , if you could only travel backward like a crab .
If I could get my hands on you , I 'd make you care .
What is the most recent news ?
And did you see the handkerchief ?
My own house , good lady .
I know the boy will be a convincing gentlewoman , taking up her exact walk and talk and gentle gestures . I ca n't wait to hear him call the drunkard " husband , " and to watch my men smother their laughter as they pay their respects to this simple peasant . I 'll go and coach them . My presence may put a damper on their high spirits , which might otherwise get out of control .
To remove the corpse of the man he killed . His madness allows a glimmering of morality to shine through , like a vein of gold in a chunk of coal . He weeps for what he has done .
The thane of Cawdor will never again betray me . Go announce that he will be executed , and tell Macbeth that Cawdor 's titles will be given to him .
But Montague has sworn an oath just like I have , and he 's under the same penalty . I do n't think it will be hard for men as old as we are to keep the peace .
I ca n't blame her . She has been wronged too often . I regret what I have done to hurt her .
Yes , yes , my lord . I 'll take you to where he sleeps , and you can pound a nail into his head .
Do you have news from Verona ! --What is it , Balthasar ? Do you bring me a letter from the friar ? How is my wife ? Is my father well ? How is my Juliet ? I ask that again because nothing can be wrong if she is well .
And if the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating idiot , does that mean , you think , that we should also be an ass and a fool and a prating idiot ? Think about it .
Good Enobarbus !
Listen they 're howling .
We would have liked to have heard your good advice , which has always been serious and helpful , at the council today , but we 'll wait until tomorrow . Are you riding far ?
Of course they do n't say " no " ! Who 'd waste his time talking to such a stupid bird ? Who 'd bother to accuse a bird of lying , even if the bird were telling him that his wife was cheating on him ?
Tear him to pieces . He 's a conspirator .
Not good ones , please .
But since things are calm now , let 's keep them that way . We wo n't wake a sleeping wolf .
Agreed .
What do you say to a calf 's foot ?
Well , it seems to me that she is too short to be praised highly , too dark to be praised fairly , and too small to be praised greatly . I can only say this about her : if she looked different than she does , she would be ugly , and since she ca n't be anything but herself , I do n't like her .
He 's serious .
Now all of my family 's troubles have come to a glorious end , thanks to my brother , King Edward IV . All the clouds that threatened the York family have vanished and turned to sunshine . Now we wear the wreaths of victory on our heads . We 've taken off our armor and weapons and hung them up as decorations . Instead of hearing trumpets call us to battle , we dance at parties . We get to wear easy smiles on our faces rather than the grim expressions of war . Instead of charging toward our enemies on armored horses , we dance for our ladies in their chambers , accompanied by sexy songs on the lute . But I 'm not made to be a seducer , or to make faces at myself in the mirror . I was badly made and do n't have the looks to strut my stuff in front of pretty sluts . I 've been cheated of a nice body and face , or even normal proportions . I am deformed , spit out from my mother 's womb prematurely and so badly formed that dogs bark at me as I limp by them . I 'm left with nothing to do in this weak , idle peacetime , unless I want to look at my lumpy shadow in the sun and sing about that .
I 'm helping you mess up one of God 's creations -- your poor , unworthy brother -- by having him do nothing .
Come , come , we 're worrying about the worst-case scenario . I 'm sure everything will be fine .
They are here at court now , and I believe they 've been told to give a performance for him tonight .
This week he was sad , moody , and depressed and very different from his usual self . But it was n't until this afternoon that he broke out into violence .
No , I wo n't give my medicine away to anyone but the sick . There 's a man haunting this forest who abuses the trees by carving " Rosalind " on their barks . He hangs his odes on the hawthorns and his elegies on the brambles -- each of these poems praising to the heavens one " Rosalind . " Now if I could find this man , this dream - catcher , I would give him some good advice , because he is truly love - sick .
What are they doing here , sir ?
If you 're Trinculo , then come out . I 'll pull on these smaller legs . If any legs here are Trinculo 's , these are . Well ,
I do n't know . If they have spoken the truth about Hero , I will tear her apart with my bare hands . But if they have accused her falsely , even the greatest of them will have to deal with me . Age has n't dried up my body or eroded my intelligence so much , and luck has n't robbed me of so much of my fortune , and my bad ways have n't deprived me of so many friends , that they wo n't find me ready to seek revenge both physically and mentally , with money and friends at my disposal .
Hurry up , Audrey , hurry . --I 'm coming , I 'm coming .
I 'm angry that a dishonorable lowlife like this wears a sword like a gentleman . Smiling swindlers such as he undo the sacred bonds that unite people together , and only encourage the unreasonable passions of their masters . They foster both rage and apathy . They say " Yes " and " No , " turning their noses whichever way the wind blows without taking a firm stance on anything . They blindly follow their masters ' impulses , like dogs . --Damn your ugly stinking face ! Are you laughing at what I say , as if I were a fool ? If I had my way with you right now , I 'd send you to back to where you came from .
All right , Hal . I 'll tell you this : in a way , being a hangman agrees with me just as well as hanging around the court .
No , what provoked you was your own bloody mind , which never thinks about anything but butchering . You killed this king , did n't you ?
Fool !
Did Diana ever beautify a grove as much as Kate beautifies this room with her queenly movements ? You be Diana , and let Diana be Kate . Then let Kate be the chaste one , while Diana plays with me .
Demetrius loves her , and he does n't love you .
All cooped up together , just as you ordered , all imprisoned in the grove of linden trees that protects your room from bad weather . They ca n't move till you release them . The king , his brother , and your brother are all waiting there in a crazed state of mind , and the rest are grieving over them , sad and astonished . " Good old lord Gonzalo , " as you call him , is saddest of all , with tears running down his beard . Your magic spell has such an effect on them that if you saw them now , you 'd feel sorry for them .
From the time when you decide to do something terrible to the moment you do it , everything feels unreal , like a horrible dream . The unconscious and the body work together and rebel against the conscious mind .
I told them to take you away .
I 've finished it for you , and it ends in " Margaret . "
Who 's that breaking down the door ?
No.
It 's all luck . Everything 's luck . Maria once told me Olivia was fond of me . I 've almost heard Olivia say that herself . She said if she were interested in someone , it would be someone who looked like me . Besides , she treats me more respectfully than the other servants . What 's the obvious conclusion from that ?
They certainly will . They 'll have double helpings , too .
What ? Is this true ?
Yes , and more than we should seek to know . It 's enough that we know we 're the king 's subjects . If his cause is wrong , our obedience to the king clears us of responsibility for it .
Did you see the king today , Lord Derby ?
What time is it ?
I 'm begging you .
Let 's carry him in triumph to his house !
This is a sorry sight .
Eros ! Bring my armor , Eros .
Well , is it not news that Petruchio 's coming ?
No. -- As for you , you evil man that I ca n't even call brother , I forgive you for even your worst sin , all your sins . I demand my dukedom back from you , which I know you have to give me .
You 'll be lord of the island then , and I 'll be your servant .
But why , why , why ?
Where is his body , Messala ?
He was just being polite ; it 's not as if you did something to deserve it .
Yes , my lord .
get his position and use him to hurt Othello at the same time ? How ? How ? Let 's see . After a while I 'll start telling Othello that Cassio is too intimate with Desdemona . Cassio is a smooth talker and a good-looking guy , the sort of man that people would expect to be a seducer . The Moor is open and straightforward . He thinks any man who seems honest is honest . People like that are easy to manipulate . So it 's all decided . I 've worked it out . With a little help from the devil , I 'll bring this monstrous plan to success .
I 'm only trying to keep the peace . Either put away your sword or use it to help me stop this fight .
What does he say about Brutus ?
If there is , then heaven help him !
Yes , sir . A crowd of sick people is waiting for him to heal them . Their illness confounds the most advanced techniques of modern medicine , but when he touches them , they heal immediately because of the power granted to him by heaven .
Is it that early in the day ?
You 'll grant me , you hedgehog ? Then let God grant me that you 'll be damned for that wicked deed . Oh , he was gentle , mild , and virtuous .
Well then , improve your situation with a show of courage . Challenge the count 's young servant to a fight . Hurt him in eleven different places . My niece Olivia will notice , and let me tell you , no matchmaker in the world can get you a woman faster than a reputation for courage .
Yes , yes . It 's a scratch , just a scratch . But it 's enough . Where is my page ? Go , boy . Get me a doctor .
Take up the sword again , or take me up .
Everyone .
Just remember who you 've got on board with you , good man .
Go , Philostrate , get the young people of Athens ready to celebrate and have a good time . Sadness is only appropriate for funerals . We do n't want it at our festivities .
If Antony were to take Octavia as his wife , you two would be bound in eternal friendship . As brothers , your hearts would be tied together in an unbreakable knot . She is beautiful enough for the best of men . Her virtue and grace are unparalleled . With this marriage , all the petty jealousies that now seem huge , and all the great fears that are dangerous in themselves , would disappear . People would become used to speaking the truth rather than gossip . Since she would love both of you , you two would be joined in that love . Excuse my bluntness . This is not a spur-of-the-moment suggestion . I have been considering this for some time , in my duties to both of you .
In all that time , you and your first husband , Sir John Grey , were fighting for the Lancasters . --And so were you , Rivers . --Elizabeth , was n't your first husband killed while fighting in Queen Margaret 's army at Saint Alban 's ? In case you 've forgotten , I want to remind you where you come from and what side you were on before you arrived here . And I want you to remember whom I fought for , who I have been , and who I am .
You do n't know what you 're talking about , Lord Mowbray . Bolingbroke at the time was considered the bravest gentleman in England . Who knows who would have won that fight ? But even if your father had won , he never would have made it out of Coventry . The whole country hated him , and they loved and prayed for Bolingbroke .
Instead of crying , let 's keep hold of our swords and defend our fallen homeland like honorable men . Each day new widows howl , new orphans cry , and new sorrows slap heaven in the face , until it sounds like heaven itself feels Scotland 's anguish and screams in pain .
I hear some noise . Lady , come out of the tomb . A greater power than we can fight has ruined our plan . Come , come away . Your husband lies dead there , and Paris too . Come , I 'll place you among the sisterhood of holy nuns . Do n't wait to ask questions . The watch is coming . Come , let 's go , good Juliet , I do n't dare stay any longer .
Never mind his puffings and his turkeys . God bless you , Ensign Pistol ! You lousy , rotten , villain , God bless you !
Good father , I 'm begging you on my knees , be patient and listen to me say just one thing .
I assure you , sir , it 's true .
Yes , leave that labor to great Hercules -- it 's worse than the previous twelve put together .
Am I on earth , in heaven , or in hell ? Asleep or awake ? Crazy or sane ? These people know me , but I do n't
But jealous people do n't think like that . They 're never jealous for a reason ; they 're just jealous . It 's like a monster that just grows and grows , out of nothing .
Prepare the body , then , and follow us .
Yes , my lord .
And you too , Brutus ? In that case , die , Caesar .
You , Nick Bottom , have been cast as Pyramus .
By all that 's holy , here comes Katherina !
Hello , good sir .
Hurry up , my Jewish friend .
Follow the mighty captain .
Be violent , bold , and firm . Laugh at the power of other men , because nobody born from a woman will ever harm Macbeth .
Like a tench ? I 'm telling you , not even a king could be bitten more than I 've been bitten since midnight .
Actually , you should n't be , because , see , even if he were my own brother I 'd want the duke to stick to his plan and have Bardolph executed . Discipline must be kept .
Come on , swear to it . Kiss the Bible and swear it . I 'm going to fill the bottle up again soon .
What , you 're going to the Tower , my lord ?
Come on , let 's hurry . She 'll be back again soon .
Why , how could she have been murdered ?
We might as well call him a man , since God created him . No , I know it 's bad to make fun of people , but still ! His horse is better than the Neapolitan 's and he frowns more than the Count Palatine . He was trying to outdo everyone so much that you could n't tell who he was . He started dancing every time a bird sang , and he was so eager to show off his fencing that he 'd fight with his own shadow . If I married him , I might as well as marry twenty husbands , because he 's like twenty men all rolled into one ! I 'd understand it if he hated me , since even if he loved me desperately , I 'd never be able to love him back .
Is that true ? Then Desdemona and Othello will go back to Venice .
Oh , help !
Will my daughter be a good musician , do you think ?
Yes , and be brief .
My lord , the queen wants to speak with you right away .
Sweet Phoebe , have pity on me .
Like her ? Oh , Isis , that 's impossible .
No , he kept a blanket to cover himself with . If he had n't , we 'd all be embarrassed to look at him .
Not really , for the truest poetry is often the most artificial . Lovers are fond of poetry and often concoct great lies in their poems .
Damn this world , and the vile little people who live in it ! I 'm talking about Africa , and its golden joys .
I will weigh heavily on your soul tomorrow . Remember how you stabbed me at Tewksbury , when I was just a young man . Despair , and die ! Be cheerful , Richmond -- butchered princes fight for you . I , King Henry 's son , will provide you with comfort .
He 's my enemy too , and I hate him so much that every minute he 's alive it eats away at my heart . Since I 'm king , I could simply use my power to get rid of him . But I ca n't do that , because he and I have friends in common whom I need , so I have to be able to moan and cry over his death in public even though I 'll be the one who had him killed . That 's why I need your help right now . I have to hide my real plans from the public eye for many important reasons .
This is a sleepy tune . Oh , deadening sleep , have you taken over my boy who plays music for you ? Gentle boy , good night . I wo n't trouble you so much as to wake you . If you were to droop down , you 'd break your instrument , and so I 'll take it from you . Good night , good boy . Let me see , let me see . Did n't I turn down the page where I left off reading ? Here it is , I think . This candle does n't give much light .
If you want to come have dinner with me , you can . If you do n't want to , then good riddance .
Here in the tent .
By God that 's right , my boy ! And by the way , is n't the hostess of the tavern a delicious woman ?
No news , my lord .
She often does that . She looks like she 's washing her hands . I 've seen her do that before for as long as fifteen minutes .
Oh , make them joyful ! Grant their law-abiding request !
Pardon me , gentle master . As usual , I 'm in complete agreement with you about everything , and glad that you still relish the idea of studying philosophy -- and let me add that I admire your virtue and your moral discipline . That said , let 's not become total stoics or unfeeling blocks of wood and give up all thought of pleasure . We do n't want to become so focused on stoics that we forget to read Ovid . Here 's my thought : practice your logic as you chat with your friends , and your rhetoric in ordinary conversation . Use music and poetry to excite your senses . Math and metaphysics -- well , I 'd play them by ear , spending only as much time on them as you can stand . There 's nothing to be gained from things we take no pleasure in . What I 'm saying , sir , is this : study what you most enjoy .
I will . What 's this all about ?
I 'm out of breath , sir .
No , no , the drink , the drink ! Oh , my dear Hamlet ! The drink , the drink ! I 've been poisoned .
I hope it 's Bassanio coming to win Portia !
I do n't know his name .
And there comes Caesar .
Wait , look ! It has come again . I 'll meet it if it 's the last thing I do . --Stay here , you hallucination !
Are you talking about young Master Launcelot ? Watch out , I 'm going to pull a good prank here . --Is that who you 're talking about ?
Is it true that good King Edward has died ?
Nope .
I thought he was dead , struck by lightning . But are n't you drowned , Stephano ? I hope you 're not drowned . Has the storm passed ? I hid under this monster 's cloak to get out of the storm . Are you really alive , Stephano ? Oh , Stephano , two men from Naples survived !
Heaven helped me out with that too . I had my father 's signet ring in my pocket , with the royal seal of Denmark on it . I folded up the new document , signed it , sealed it , and put it safely back so that no one noticed any difference . The next day we had our fight at sea , and you know what happened after that .
Now , Signior Petruchio , how are you getting on with my daughter ?
You 're a famous rebel , Coleville .
" While Antony ... " is what you want to say .
Do you hear , hostess ?
If I can disguise my voice as well as my appearance , then I 'll be able to carry out my plan perfectly . I was banished , but hopefully I can serve the very king who condemned me . I love my master , and he 'll find me very hard - working .
Who can say I 'm evil when my advice is so good ? That 's really the best way to win the Moor back again . It 's easy to get Desdemona on your side . She 's full of good intentions . And the Moor loves her so much he would renounce his Christianity to keep her happy . He 's so enslaved by love that she can make him do whatever she wants . How am I evil to advise Cassio to do exactly what 'll do him good ? That 's the kind of argument you 'd expect from Satan ! When devils are about to commit their biggest sins they put on their most heavenly faces , just like I 'm doing now . And while this fool is begging Desdemona to help him , and while she 's pleading his case to the Moor , I 'll poison the Moor 's ear against her , hinting that she 's taking Cassio 's side because of her lust for him . The more she
Yes , as short as a woman 's love .
What I say is n't slander , sir . It 's the truth . And what I said , I said to my face .
That 's excellent .
I 've been so wasted since I saw you last that I 'm worried I 'll never be sober again . But at least I wo n't rot , being so full of alcohol .
What is this passion that ties up my tongue ? I ca n't speak to her , even though she asked me to . Oh , poor Orlando , you 've been overthrown ! Either Charles or some prettier thing has mastered you .
It 's true . Whenever she meets a man -- no matter how wise , noble , young , handsome -- she rearranges all his good qualities so they end up looking bad . If he has a fair complexion , she 'll say the pretty man should be her sister , not her husband . If he 's dark - skinned , Nature must have spilled some ink while drawing his foolish face . If he 's tall , she 'll say he 's a spear topped by an odd head ; if he 's short , she says he looks like a badly carved miniature . If he 's talkative , he 's a weathervane , moving in all directions at once ; if he 's silent , he 's a block that ca n't be moved at all . And so she turns men inside out and never acknowledges the integrity and merit that a man has .
You bloodthirsty dog , you 're crueler than sadness or hunger , crueler than the sea . Look at these dead people on this bed . You did all this . He makes me sick . Take him away . Gratiano , take care of the house , and take the Moor 's property . You 've inherited everything . -- Governor , I leave it in your hands to punish this evil villain : just decide the time , the place and the means of torture . And then carry it out ! I have to go back to Venice , and tell them about these sad events .
The wind that scatters young men throughout the world , encouraging them to seek their fortunes some place other than home , where there 's little to be found in the way of experience . But to be brief , Hortensio , the situation is that my father , Antonio , is dead , and I have set off into this crazy world to see if I can marry well and make a good life for myself . I have money in my purse and property at home , so I 'm off to see the world .
My sister is all those things , or else she should be .
Will it be tonight at supper ?
Let 's follow them to see how this turns out .
I 'm the one , Hamlet . Hamlet , you 're dead . No medicine in the world can cure you . You do n't have more than half an hour to live . The treacherous weapon is right in your hand , sharp and dipped in poison . The foul plan backfired on me . Here I lie and will never get up again . Your mother 's been poisoned . I ca n't speak anymore . The king , the king 's to blame .
The wildest animal is n't as cruel as you are . Run whenever you want to . The story of Daphne and Apollo will be changed :
He uses his clownishness to disguise his deadly wit .
Many times , madam .
Pardon me , lords and gentlemen who stayed awake . You 've caught me oversleeping .
I 've seen actors who are highly praised , but who -- not to be too rude here -- ca n't even talk or walk like human beings . They bellow and strut about like weird animals that were made to look like men , but very badly .
No , my good knight . Go with my brothers to my English peers . I need to be alone with my thoughts for a while and do n't want any company .
Come on , let 's go see what happens .
No , and I did n't hear anything either , or suspect anything at all .
Is n't the parchment of a legal document made of sheepskin ?
That 's all you noticed ? You missed the part where her sister began to scold her and made such a ruckus that human ears could hardly stand it ?
What angel is this who 's waking me up from my bed of flowers ?
Yes , exactly , and that 's the point . If we 're too weak without him , then I do n't think we should advance until we know that his help is guaranteed . In a fight as bloody as this one , we need to be certain about the status of our supporters : we ca n't rely on conjecture , hope , and guesswork when aid is n't guaranteed .
You 'd be tired , madam , if you had bad luck rather than wealth and good luck . But as far as I can tell , people with too much suffer as much as people with nothing . The best way to be happy is to be in between . When you have too much you get old sooner , but having just enough helps you live longer .
It was n't the journey itself , uncle , but the troubles we encountered that made it wearisome and dull . I want more uncles here to welcome me .
Yes , I intend to keep myself warm , sweet Katherine - -in your bed . So let 's cut to the chase : your father has consented for you to become my wife . Your dowry is agreed upon , and whether you like it or not , I will marry you . I tell you , I 'm the man for you , Kate . I swear by this light , which shows me your beauty -- the beauty that makes me love you -- that you must be married to no man but me . I 'm the man who was born to tame you and change you from a wildcat Kate into a Kate as gentle and domestic as other household Kates .
What a pretentious riddle !
Okay , bring on the play . But what 's a " comonty ? " Some sort of Christmas skit or display of acrobatics ?
Wait ! You only told me part of what I want to know . Stay and tell me more . I already know I am the thane of Glamis because I inherited the position when my father , Sinel , died . But how can you call me the thane of Cawdor ? The thane of Cawdor is alive , and he 's a rich and powerful man . And for me to be the king is completely impossible , just as it 's impossible for me to be thane of Cawdor . Tell me where you learned these strange things , and why you stop us at this desolate place with this prophetic greeting ? Speak , I command you .
He 's gone down nature 's path ; for our purposes , he is no longer living .
I 'll come with you .
Don Pedro is here .
What 's going on , Juliet ?
Have you ever cured anyone this way before ?
You keep finding ways to mock me ! Are you planning on showing me all your wit at once ? Please understand my simple message : go tell the servants to set the table and bring in the food , and we 'll come in to dinner .
Right over to that willow tree to see about your business . How do you want to wear your garland of willow leaves ? Around your neck , like a moneylender 's gold chain , or under your arm , like a lieutenant 's sash ? You have to wear it somehow , because the Prince has gotten your Hero .
Was n't Charles , the duke 's wrestler , here to speak with me ?
It 's good you found me . I 'll just speak a word or two here in the house and then I 'll go with you .
Your beautiful eyes , sweet lady , have infected mine with love .
That must be it , because the age of miracles is passed , and we have to find reasonable explanations for why these things happen .
Oh , and I know who loves him .
Well , we 're wasting time , and the angels in heaven are mocking us . Is your boss here in London ?
Antony will necessarily be distracted by your presence . You will affect his heart and his head . You 'll take up time he ca n't afford to lose . He 's already criticized for frivolous behavior . In Rome they say that your eunuch Photinus and your maids run the war .
By God , it does look like a camel .
Fit to be king ? You 're not fit to live ! --Oh miserable nation , ruled by a usurping , murderous tyrant , when will you see peaceful days again ? The man who has a legal right to the throne is , by his own admission , a cursed man and a disgrace to the royal family . --Your royal father Duncan was a virtuous king . Your mother spent more time on her knees in prayer than she did standing up , and she lived a life of absolute piety . Good - bye . The evils you have described inside yourself have driven me out of Scotland forever . Oh my heart , your hope is dead !
The usual old characters .
That 's true , that 's very true . Tubal , go find me a police officer to arrest Antonio . Get him ready two weeks ahead of time . --I 'll take Antonio 's heart if he ca n't pay . With him out of Venice , I can make whatever bargains I want when I lend money . --Go , Tubal . Meet me at the synagogue .
This is no time to have a discussion . Christ ! The day is hot and between the weather and the wars and the king and the dukes , it 's no time for a discussion . The town is besieged , and the trumpet calls us to the gap , and we talk and do nothing , by Christ . It 's a disgrace to us all . God save me , it 's a disgrace , by this hand , when there are throats to be cut and work to be done , and nothing gets done , Christ save me .
Listen Tranio ! That 's Minerva 's voice you hear .
The crow sings as well as the lark when no one 's listening . If the nightingale sang during the day , when every goose is honking , nobody would think it sang any better than a wren . How many things in life seem good to us because of when they happen ! Quiet now ! Look how the moon seems to be sleeping with its lover and ca n't be awoken !
We 're off , Biondello . But they may need you at home , so you go on back .
He is made of treachery , and has run away to avoid his crimes .
Excellent , very good . Ask around and find out what Danish people are in Paris -- who they are , where they live and how much money they have , who their friends are . And if you find out in this general sort of questioning that they happen to know my son , you 'll find out much more than if you asked specific questions about him . Just tell them you vaguely know Laertes , say something like , " I 'm a friend of his father and I sort of know him , " or whatever . Do you get what I 'm saying , Reynaldo ?
Ah , I wish my dirty flesh could melt away into a vapor , or that God had not made a law against suicide . Oh God , God ! How tired , stale , and pointless life is to me . Damn it ! It 's like a garden that no one 's taking care of , and that 's growing wild . Only nasty weeds grow in it now . I ca n't believe it 's come to this . My father 's only been dead for two months -- no , not even two . Such an excellent king , as superior to my uncle as a god is to a beast , and so loving toward my mother that he kept the wind from blowing too hard on her face .
I do n't know anyone with that name , ma'am . There was no Signior Montanto in our army .
Let me try : If there 's a buck who needs a doe Tell him Rosalind will do . A cat in heat will look for a mate , And Rosalind certainly will too . Winter garments need to be filled with something , And so does skinny Rosalind . After you harvest , you have to sheaf and bind So throw ripe Rosalind on the harvest cart . The sweetest nut has the sourest rind And Rosalind is that kind of nut . The man who finds the sweetest rose Will be pricked by it , and by Rosalind . This is exactly the false way that verses gallop along . Why bother with them ?
Shall sweet Bianca practice how to be a bride ?
For God 's sake , wherever you want , boy . I 'll be one of the gang . If I 'm not , call me evildoer and string me up .
Stop it , you silly goose .
Sight has gone blind , life is as dead as a ghost . This is a mournful scene -- it 's a shame to the world , when someone like me , who should have died long ago , still lives . As a short summary and record of an unbearable life , I 'll settle my restless bones on England 's lawful ground , which broke the law when it got drunk on the blood of the innocent !
Shoot him , just shoot him .
Hello , sir .
But what if my answer 's no ?
Get lost , will you ? I 'd like to get you solus .
Right away , sir !
Wake up , Brabantio ! Wake up ! Thieves ! Thieves ! Check on your daughter , your house , your money ! Thieves ! Thieves !
Though I said my name was Benedick , I heard this news with Claudio 's ears . Of course the Prince wants Hero for himself . Friendship is enduring except when love is involved . Therefore , all lovers should speak for themselves . They should look for themselves , without asking someone else to get involved in their affairs . Beauty is a witch whose spells can turn loyalty into passion . This happens a lot , but it did n't occur to me that it would happen to me . Goodbye then , Hero .
She did indeed , my daughter says so . She worries that Beatrice is so overwrought that she might do herself harm someday . It 's true .
If he falls in , then it 's all over , whether he sinks or swims . The honor of the struggle is all that counts , no matter what the danger is or where it comes from . It takes more courage to wake a sleeping lion than to frighten a rabbit !
Indeed ?
No , I 'm an ape .
What , we 're going to die ?
Yes , my lady . But those political considerations might last such a long time that the general will forget my love and service , especially if I 'm gone and someone else has my job .
Now I 'm not worried . You there , young sport ! Your father would be a fool to give you all his wealth and spend his declining years as a guest in your house . It 's absurd . An old Italian fox is never that generous , my boy .
Do n't forget to see what he 's up to with your own eyes . Do n't trust gossip .
I 'll look at him and try to like him , at least if what I see is likable . But I wo n't let myself fall for him any more than your permission allows .
Ah , poor ghost !
Is this a dagger I see in front of me , with its handle pointing toward my hand ? Come , let me hold you . I do n't have you but I can still see you . Fateful apparition , is n't it possible to touch you as well as see you ? Or are you nothing more than a dagger created by the mind , a hallucination from my fevered brain ? I can still see you , and you look as real as this other dagger that I 'm pulling out now . You 're leading me toward the place I was going already , and I was planning to use a weapon just like you . My eyesight must either be the one sense that 's not working , or else it 's the only one that 's working right . I can still see you , and I see blood splotches on your blade and handle that were n't there before . There 's no dagger here . It 's the murder I 'm about to do that 's making me think I see one . Now half the world is asleep and being deceived by evil nightmares . Witches are offering sacrifices to their goddess Hecate . Old man murder , having been roused by the howls of his wolf , walks silently to his destination , moving like Tarquin , as quiet as a ghost . Hard ground , do n't listen to the direction of my steps . I do n't want you to echo back where I am and break the terrible stillness of this moment , a silence that is so appropriate for what I 'm about to do . While I stay here talking , Duncan lives . The more I talk , the more my courage cools .
But , my good lord , the words of you and Lord Buckingham are as trustworthy to me as if I had seen and heard him speak myself . And do not doubt , you honest , noble princes , that I 'll let our citizens know how fairly you proceeded in this case .
I have no idea what you 're talking about , Hamlet . You 're not answering my question .
You can have anything you want .
I know who you are . You can have what you want . I spoke with your master Shylock today , and he recommended you to me . If you want to leave a rich Jew to work for a poor gentleman , you 're welcome to .
You 're not in love either ? Fine , let 's just say you 're sad because you 're not in a good mood . You know , it 'd be just as easy for you to laugh and dance around and say you 're in a good mood . You could just say you 're not sad . Humans are so different .
He rests tonight within twenty-one miles of Rome .
Yes , as much pleasure as one might take in choking a bird at knifepoint . You do n't want to eat , sir ? Goodbye , then .
But you heard him swear up and down that he was .
There 's no reason to fear that he will pull all three divisions together and confront us with his full strength .
Be quiet , be quiet . Draw the curtains , just like that . We 'll have supper in the morning . That 's right .
He can act as brave as he wants , but I believe on a cold night like this he wishes he were neck-deep in the Thames , and I wish he were , too , and I with him , whatever the danger , so long as we were far away from here .
Wait . Look back at the Tower with me . Please , you ancient building , take pity on those tender babes locked inside your walls by envious rivals ! You are such a rough cradle for such little pretty ones . You are a rude , ragged nurse and an old , sullen playmate for such tender princes . Please treat my babies well . I know I must look foolish saying goodbye to a building , but I 'm aching with sorrow .
I hope everything 's okay , sir . What 's the news ?
Well said . And you 're right -- our luck ebbs and flows like the tide , because , like the sea , we 're governed by the moon . I 'll prove it . Imagine a bag of gold , brilliantly swiped on a Monday night and extravagantly spent on a Tuesday morning . You snatch it , shouting , " Hand it off ! " and spend it , calling , " Bring it on ! " It 's like the gallows : one minute you 're at the bottom of the ladder -- low tide . The next , you 're swinging from the top -- high tide !
As surely but more poorly Than birds sing on the bough .
Right now ; as fast as she can say the vows .
What 's this ! What 's the matter ?
How did she get that candle ?
You pick .
Charmian !
What is the tyrant Macbeth doing ?
Here , hang them on this clothesline .
Good thinking . I have it on me here . When you 're done , go to Crosby Place . But , sirs , do the job fast . And stick to your mission . Do n't let him plead for his life , because Clarence is a good talker and may make you pity him if you let him get started .
Let 's do it in the open field .
When I have the juice of that flower , I 'll trickle some drops of it on Titania 's eyes while she 's sleeping . She 'll fall madly in love with the first thing she sees when she wakes up -- even if it 's a lion , a bear , a wolf , a bull , a monkey , or an ape . And before I make her normal again --I can cure her by treating her with another plant --I 'll make her give me that little boy as my page . But who 's that coming this way ? I 'll make myself invisible and listen to their conversation .
Hey ! Have you seen Master Lorenzo ! Master Lorenzo , hey ! Hey !
I feel so sorry for him that my tears are starting to ruin my disguise .
That 's merciful but a bit careless . He should be punished , your Majesty . If we tolerate such behavior , we 're in danger of encouraging it .
He 's a fool , a madman , and a drowned man . The first drink makes him a fool , the second makes him crazy , and the third drowns him .
Is it really possible that you could like her right after meeting her ? And fall in love with her after merely seeing her ? And as soon as you fall in love , with her , woo her ? And as soon as you woo her , have her accept ? And do you really mean to marry her ?
Should I allow you to say that ? Should I set aside something that 's mine by right ? If I allow you anything , hang me . If you allow yourself , hang you . You 're running in the wrong direction : get out of here ! Go !
We 're ready if our minds are ready .
Do n't worry , man , I wo n't try to escape . When it 's time for me to be freed , I 'll pay you the fee you 're entitled to for arresting me . My wife 's in a perverse mood today . She 'll be suspicious when the messenger tells her that I was arrested . I tell you , this will make her angry when she hears about it .
What Antony says , I 'll announce , he says only by our permission and by our conviction that Caesar should be honored with all the usual and lawful ceremonies . It 'll help us more than hurt us .
Yes , and now Fortune is playing a nasty trick on Nature : she 's breaking up a show of wit between two naturally witty women with the arrival of a natural fool .
Curse you for your false appearances ! To me , you seemed like Diana in her orbit -- as virginal as the flower bud before it blooms . But you 're actually as hot-blooded as Venus , or a pampered animal allowed to run wild .
I do n't have the cash right now . Besides , I have some business to take care of in town . Good signior , take this stranger to my house . Bring the necklace with you , and tell my wife to pay you the amount due . I might make it back in time to meet you .
Casca , you 'll be the first to raise your hand .
Hal , if you see me fall in battle , stand over me , like this . It would be an act of friendship .
To be the king is nothing if I 'm not safe as the king . I 'm very afraid of Banquo . There 's something noble about him that makes me fear him . He 's willing to take risks , and his mind never stops working . He has the wisdom to act bravely but also safely . I 'm not afraid of anyone but him . Around him , my guardian angel is frightened , just as Mark Antony 's angel supposedly feared Octavius Caesar . Banquo chided the witches when they first called me king , asking them to tell him his own future . Then , like prophets , they named him the father to a line of kings . They gave me a crown and a scepter that I ca n't pass on . Someone outside my family will take these things away from me , since no son of mine will take my place as king . If this is true , then I 've tortured my conscience and murdered the gracious Duncan for Banquo 's sons . I 've ruined my own peace for their benefit . I 've handed over my everlasting soul to the devil so that they could be kings . Banquo 's sons , kings ! Instead of watching that happen , I will challenge fate to battle and fight to the death . Who 's there !
My lord , he asks that you please visit him tomorrow or the next day . He 's inside in prayer , with two reverend fathers . He does n't want to be disturbed in his holy work by any worldly requests .
It 's fair for him to treat me like this , very fair . What have I ever done that he has anything to complain about ?
Do n't swear like that and then go back and eat it later .
Here , madam : Hic ibat Simois , hic est Sigeia tellus , Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis .
Honest , my lord ?
I heard the news , my lord .
I had no chance to repent my sins or receive last rites . Oh , it 's horrible , horrible , so horrible ! If you are human , do n't stand for it . Do n't let the Danish king 's bed be a nest of incest . But however you go about your revenge , do n't corrupt your mind or do any harm to your mother . Leave her to God and her own guilt . Now , good - bye . The glowworm 's light is beginning to fade , so morning is near . Good - bye , good - bye , good - bye . Remember me .
You 'll have to take some chances yourself before you catch them .
Yes , that 's quite likely .
Run and hide in my study . --Just a minute --For the love of God , why are you being so stupid ? I 'm coming . I 'm coming .
You are not as happy as Macbeth , yet much happier .
Pray well , father .
And here comes the warden , just in time . Officer , please tell us , if you will , how are the prince and my little son , York ?
Keep your hundreds . He wo n't need them as long as I 'm living .
Come on , let 's get them opinioned .
She lied to her father to marry you . And when she pretended to be afraid of you , she loved you the most .
I can only walk a little way with you , since I 'm waiting here . But I 'll see you soon .
What 's Pyramus ? A lover or a tyrant ?
Yes , you did , sir . In fact , you swore it .
He 's a very dishonest , puny boy , and more cowardly than a rabbit . He abandoned his friend here in an emergency , and even pretended he did n't know him . That shows he 's dishonest . As for his cowardliness , ask Fabian .
Come on , you 're a fool , and driven to extreme measures by love . I saw her hands : they were as rough as leather and just as brown ; I thought she was wearing old gloves , but they were , in fact , her hands . These are the hands of a hard-working housewife , but that 's not the point . The point is that she did n't write this letter . These are a man 's words , and his handwriting .
These lovers are saying some strange things , Theseus .
Excuse me , sir ?
I 'll take your word as a prince that you 'll make good on these things .
The Prince has taken it . Go , find him . Is he in such a hurry that he thinks my sleep is my death ? Find him , Lord Warwick . Rebuke him , and bring him here .
And goodbye to you , the poor soul who has to leave that glory behind .
Be patient , gentle friends , I must not read it . It is n't proper for you to know how much Caesar loved you . You are n't wood , you are n't stones-- you 're men . And , being men , the contents of Caesar 's will would enrage you . It 's better that you do n't know you 're his heirs , for if you knew , just imagine what would come of it !
You 're right ; he 's safe , and now he 's coming to kill you . Now please , give me your sword .
I 've been crazed with so many miseries that my tongue has tired of lamenting and gone mute . Edward Plantagenet , why are you dead ?
Here 's my servant . I think he 's got the money . Hello there , sir ! Do you have what I told you to get ?
Check the calendar and come tell me .
I 'm sure you know him .
Enough , you crazy fool ! Not even a weasel is as hotheaded as you are . I swear , I 'll find out what you 're up to , Harry , I will . I fear that my brother , Mortimer , is making some kind of move over his claim to the throne , and has asked you to help . But if you go --
The low note 's fine ; it 's this low - minded dog that 's out of tune ! How touchy and insistent this fellow is ! I 'm beginning to think he 's wooing my darling . Little professor ! I 'll have to keep an eye on you .
Somebody , bring an escape or two ! You will , will you ? You will , will you ? Go ahead , go ahead , you scoundrel ! You hemp - seed !
Oh , you villain ! You 'll be condemned to everlasting redemption for this !
If you want to fight , I 'm your man . My employer is as good as yours .
I wish I were , so I could deprive you of both day and life .
How are you , my golden girl ?
Who 's with him ? Do you know ?
And I am , I am .
Come , dance in a circle and sing a fairy song , and then go off for a while to do your work . Some of you will kill the worms infesting the rosebuds , some of you will fight with bats to get their leathery wings , so we can make coats for my small elves . Some of you will keep that loud owl away , the one that hoots and wonders every night at us dainty fairies . Sing me to sleep now , and then go off to do your duties and let me rest .
A trivial little ribbon on the cap of youth -- yet an important one , too , since casual clothes suit young people as much as serious business suits and overcoats suit the middle - aged . Two months ago I met a gentleman from Normandy . I 've fought against the French and have seen how well they ride , but this man was a magician on horseback . It was as if he were part of the horse , so skillful that even having seen him , I can hardly conceive of the tricks he did .
Oh , stop joking around . You know , sometimes you two dress up your conversation with flimsy little bits of wit that do n't hold together too well . Before you make fun of everyone else , look at yourselves in the mirror ! And with that , I 'm leaving .
Listen , they 're still knocking ! -- Who 's there?- - Romeo , get up . They 'll arrest you . -- Hold on a moment . -- Get up .
Uncle Lear , uncle Lear , wait . Take your fool with you . A fox you 've trapped And such a daughter Should both be slaughtered , If my fool 's cap is worth a rope to bind them . So the fool follows you .
Exactly . I pray every morning and night that the Lord wo n't send me a husband . Really , I could n't stand a husband with a beard . I 'd rather be wrapped in scratchy blankets all night .
Or an old lion , or a guitar playing a sad lovesong .
In his heart ? In what chapter and verse of his heart ?
Worcester , get out . I see danger and disobedience in your eyes . You carry yourself too boldly and proudly , and royalty should never have to endure a servant 's frowning face . You have my permission to leave now . When I need you or your advice , I 'll call for you .
It means being filled with fantasy ; with passion and wishes ; with adoration , loyalty , and devotion . It means being humble , being patient , being impatient , being pure , being put - upon , being obedient . Just as I am for Phoebe .
Our troops are deployed tomorrow . Stay with us tonight . It 's dangerous out there .
God help you ! You are a great fool .
What kind of man , your highness ?
You purple flower , hit by Cupid 's arrow , sink into the pupils of this man 's eyes . When he sees the girl he should love , make her seem as bright to him as the evening star . Young man , when you wake up , if she 's nearby , beg her to cure your lovesickness .
I make it up as I go . It 's born of my mother wit .
I 'll rest here . I hope the pleasant daytime comes soon ! As soon as the gray light of early morning appears , I 'll find Demetrius and get my revenge for this insult .
With a crowd of slut daughters to add to the slut wife . The man who kicks away The person he should love Will bring himself pain And sleepless nights . For there never was a pretty woman who did n't like to preen in the mirror .
Did you hear that ?
Young sir , what does he say ?
Little pitchers have big ears .
How 's the prince ?
We 'll meet at the giant oak tree in the duke 's forest .
Nothing , but this is true .
And yours , most noble Bardolph !
What is this ?
So be it . Amen .
I do n't know exactly how to explain this , but I have a general feeling this means bad news for our country .
Where 's Antony now ?
Now , it 's wrong to say that the gallows are stronger than a church . Therefore , the gallows may do you some good . Come on , your turn .
I swear by my sword --
Bring us the letters . Call the messenger in .
He looks just like a guy who 's robbed me but now comes to beg me for a favor ! I hate him because he 's a Christian . But more than that , I hate him because he stupidly lends money without interest , which lowers the interest rates here in Venice . If I can just get the upper hand of him once , I 'll satisfy my old grudge against him . He hates Jews . Even at the Rialto he 's always complaining about me and my negotiating and my hard-earned profits , which he calls " interest . "
Yes , one , and this is how I did it . He had to imagine that I was the girl he was in love with . I made him woo me every day . When he did , being the changeable boy I am , I 'd mope , act effeminate , switch moods , long for him , like him , be proud and standoffish , be dreamy , full of mannerisms , unpredictable , full of tears and then smiles ; be passionate about everything , then nothing . Most boys and women act just like this . I 'd like him one minute and despise him the next ; cry for him , then spit at him -- until finally I drove love out and anger in . He abandoned the world , and hid himself away in a monastery . So I cured him , and I 'll cure you just the same , leaving you as clean as a sheep 's heart , without one spot of love in you .
Ugly , wrinkled witch , what are you doing here ?
It 's hard to make sense of such different stories .
Master , you were so focused on the girl herself , I wonder if you missed the main point here .
Oh , immortal gods !
But not a member of the royal family , like me .
What do you say to that , Malvolio ?
And like a traitor to God , you broke that oath and savagely murdered King Henry 's young son .
Anybody who wears a belt this big could n't be anything less than massive .
Besides , our hands are hard and calloused .
Quiet ! Wait ! Listen to Antony . Most noble Antony !
Francis !
Come on , do n't quarrel with us , good old man .
What is it ?
Go out and talk to this visitor , Malvolio . If he 's got a message from the count , tell him I 'm sick , or not home . Tell him anything you want , as long as you make him go away .
I am , and I do n't like it .
The doors have been smashed open .
He turned away twice and almost left him there . But his kindness was nobler than even his desire for revenge , his natural goodness was stronger than his need to give his brother what he deserved . He fought the lioness and quickly defeated her . I woke from my miserable sleep when I heard the noise of their struggle .
I wish my father could see them with my eyes .
Ah , what a jerk !
You lie .
Only until noon , my lord ? No , the whole day , and all night too .
Send me away ?
Good point , and well said .
If you make the accusation convincingly , then my cunning wo n't fail me .
Yes , yes , Curtis , so hurry up and start the fire . Leave out the water .
Stay , Please , tell me what you think of me .
Can he even get angry ? It 's hard to believe . I 've seen him stay calm when cannons were blowing his soldiers to bits , even killing his own brother without him batting an eyelid -- is he really upset ? It must be about something important . I 'll go talk to him . If he 's angry , there must be something seriously wrong .
No.
A stout man , truly ; and overweight . He has a cheerful expression , a handsome look , and a noble bearing . I think he is about fifty years old , or perhaps closer to sixty . Now I remember ! His name is Falstaff . If that man has a bad character , then I have been fooled . Harry , I see goodness in him . If one can tell a tree by its fruit , and a fruit by its tree , then let me come right out and say this : there is goodness in that Falstaff . Stay with him , but get rid of everyone else . Now tell me , you naughty boy , tell me ; where have you been for the past month ?
I have a favor to ask .
It 's a story that involves some shame on my part . It 's about who I am , and how , why , and where this handkerchief was stained .
Gentlemen , let go of him . He 's my prisoner and you ca n't have him .
We 're sorry to hear this .
Well , then , take that , and that , and that . Is everyone here insane ?
And now you toss flowers in the path of Caesar , who comes in triumph over Pompey 's defeated sons ? Go home ! Run to your houses , fall on your knees , and pray to the gods to spare you the pain that you deserve for such ingratitude .
What is your name -- you , who are attacking me like this ? What honor do you think you 'll get by fighting me ?
Oh , hello , father ! Father , could I please ask you to tell these people what happened between me and this young man ?
Why , man ?
Is that you , Diomedes ? Draw your sword and give me enough blows to kill me .
Was n't that the best thing to do ?
Are Englishmen really such heavy drinkers ?
I must be gone .
Madam , you have to go to your uncle' s . There 's a huge racket going on there . It 's been proven that Lady Hero is innocent , that the Prince and Claudio have been utterly deceived , and that Don John -- who has run away -- is the source of all the trouble . Will you come immediately ?
Oh , uncle , it 's better to smile and flatter indoors where it 's dry than get soaked out here . Please , uncle , let 's go in and ask your daughters to forgive you . This storm has no pity for either wise men or fools .
Yes , well done . We 've got it now . --Do you see this , my good fellow ? Go and put on your own armor .
Yes , my master . When I was putting on the Ceres show , I thought of reminding you about Caliban , but I was afraid of upsetting you .
Wait until I read the letter .
This is our station . And if our navy wins tomorrow , no doubt our army will do their part .
All right , but first let the ambassadors speak . Then you can hear my news , as dessert .
Dear father , if you caused this terrible storm with your magic powers , please put an end to it . The sky 's so dark it looks like it would rain down boiling hot tar if the sea were n't swelling up to the sky to put its fire out . Oh , I suffered along with all the men I watched suffer ! A fine ship , with some good people in it , I 'm sure , smashed to pieces . Their dying shouts broke my heart ! The poor people died . If I 'd been a god I would 've let the sea sink inside the earth before it had a chance to swallow up that ship and all the people it was carrying .
Harsh !
This is a stranger business than men have ever set foot in before , and it 's not natural either . We need some oracle to tell us what 's going on .
Messala , today is my birthday --I was born on this very day . Give me your hand , Messala . You 'll be my witness that I 've been forced , as Pompey was , to wager all of our freedoms on one battle .
All right , sir . Which men can I have ?
With his mouth full of news .
Oh , beautiful and accomplished lady , may the heavens rain odors upon you !
Happy with Hermia ? No. I regret all the boring time I wasted with her . I do n't love Hermia ; I love Helena . Who would n't love a dove more than a crow ? A man 's desires are influenced by his logical mind , and it 's simply logical that you 're more worthy of love than Hermia is .
I 'll call it " Bottom 's Dream " because it 's so deep that it has no bottom . And I 'll sing it for the duke in the intermission of a play . Or maybe , to make it even more lovely , I 'll sing it when the heroine dies .
How could I forget , my lord !
Yeah , or I 'll beat him up and make him yell " Oh ! "
Please give in , sweet Hermia . --And Lysander , stop acting like she 's yours . I 've got more of a right to her than you do .
By my mistress 's white hand , he 's a gallant prince .
How did we manage to get ashore ?
Good Sebastian , you 're the one who 's sleeping if you let this opportunity pass you by without acting on it .
Your castle was attacked . Your wife and children were savagely slaughtered . If I told you how they were killed , it would cause you so much pain that it would kill you too , and add your body to the pile of murdered corpses .
Cheer up , mother . How are you feeling ?
Who are you , moaning in the hut like that ? Come out .
Do you know any , Hero ?
" Item one , a loose - bodied gown -- "
But why would he promise to come visit me this morning and then not come ?
Do n't insult me with your distrust .
Oh , I 'm scared . What , is he dead ?
All right , forget it . I 'll figure something else out . You 'll always be a fool .
Kinsmen , I hope the time is coming when people will be safe in their own bedrooms .
" If the scorn in your bright eyes can make me fall so deeply in love , can you imagine what power they might have if they looked at me more kindly ? While you sneered at me , I loved you . Consider what effect kind prayers might have . The man that brings you this letter does n't know how I feel about you . Send me your answer via him . Tell me via him whether you will accept my faithful offer of myself and all that I can do . Or tell him you will deny my love , in which case I 'll figure out how to die . "
Both you and the king might have ordered us to execute your command , instead of asking us so politely .
You 're a traveler . Well then , you have good reason to be sad . I 'm afraid you 've sold your own land to see other men 's . To have seen much but own nothing is to have rich eyes and poor hands .
Girls , girls ! Wipe those frowns off your faces and stop rolling your eyes . This disrespectful stance toward the man who is your lord , your king , your governor tarnishes your beauty the way the frosts of winter blights the land . It mars your reputations as whirlwinds shake fair buds . And in no sense is it fitting or attractive . An angry woman is like an agitated fountain -- muddy , unpleasant , lacking in beauty . And in this condition , no one -- however dry or thirsty he may be -- will stoop to sip or touch one drop of it . Your husband is your lord , your life , your keeper , your head , your sovereign , one who cares for you and who , for your ease and comfort , commits his body to harsh labor both on land and sea . Long , stormy nights at seas he stays awake , by day he endures cold while you lie safe and warm , secure in your beds at home . And in exchange he seeks no more from you but love , kind looks , and true obedience -- too little payment for so great a debt . A woman owes her husband the same loyalty a subject owes his king . And when she is peevish and perverse , sullen , sour , and disobedient to his honest wishes , what is she but a loathsome , warlike rebel and an ungrateful traitor to her loving lord ? I am ashamed that women are so foolish as to declare war when they should plead on their knees for peace , that they seek authority , supremacy , and power when they are under an obligation to serve , love , and obey . Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth , unfit for toil and trouble in the world , if not so that our soft qualities and our hearts should agree with our external parts ? Come , come , you weak , ungovernable worms !
As fat as butter .
I thought I did , and I often tried to die . But the terrible water always held me back . It would n't let my soul find its way to air but smothered it inside my gasping body . My body wanted so badly to vomit up my spirit that it almost burst .
Do you have your father 's permission ? What does Polonius say ?
Ho ! Who 's there ?
What do you have to say for yourself , Cesario? --My lord , please --
Please , just look over there . Look ! Look ! See ! What do you have to say ? What do I care ? If you can nod , then speak too . If the dead are going to return from their graves , then there 's nothing to stop the birds from eating the bodies . So there 's no point in our burying people .
That last day was a hard one for us .
My master Antonio is at his house and would like to speak to you both .
To tie me up , or to undo me : one or the other . Signior Leonato , the truth is , your niece likes me .
and in this way the fight will go on from father to son for all time until England itself has no more new generations .
Come on , man . You can put out one fire by starting another . A new pain will make the one you already have seem less . If you make yourself dizzy , you can cure yourself by spinning back around in the opposite direction . A new grief will put the old one out of your mind . Make yourself lovesick by gazing at some new girl , and your old lovesickness will be cured .
You have no reason to .
Why , mistress , my master is as angry as a bull with horns .
I 've destroyed my reputation , a most shameful error .
Why , no , boy . Nothing can be made out of nothing .
Please tell me , has Signior Montanto returned from battle ?
Oh , that 's not true , my lord . He 's not brave enough to be wise .
I hope you can relax and enjoy yourself !
Get up , sir , and come with me . I command you , by the authority of the Prince , to obey me .
From now on , all other pursuits I 'll cast aside , except for scheming how to aggravate this Bolingbroke and his son , the lowlife Prince of Wales . If it were n't for the fact that I suspect Henry does n't love his son , and that he 'd be glad to see misfortune befall him , I 'd poison the Prince 's ale .
Gentlemen , let 's go make sure Cassio 's wounds are properly dressed . --Come on , ma'am , you can tell us another story . Emilia , go to the castle and tell Othello and Desdemona what happened . --Will you please go now ? This is the night that 'll either make me or break me .
And now , let 's get going back to the royal court : I understand that the King , my father , is gravely ill . Send news of our victory ahead of us . You , cousin , will bring him this news and comfort him with it . We 'll follow you as quickly as we can .
Who said that ?
Wait a minute . Who 's that coming ? It 's a friend of Antony 's .
That makes Lady Courtesy a traitor . All ladies love me , except you . It 's too bad I 'm so hard - hearted , because I really do n't love anyone .
Dear master , listen to me .
No , follow him now , before he divulges the prank and ruins everything .
" Thank God " -- that 's a good answer . Are you rich ?
Quiet ! Do n't move !
No , he is dead . Edward killed him .
I 'm hanging on every word .
Oh , this is a painful time !
When we see that our betters have the same problems we do , we can almost forget our own misery . The person who suffers alone suffers the most . Companions in sorrow alleviate our grief . My troubles seem so easy to bear now that I see the king collapsing under a similar sorrow . His children have done the same to him as my father has to me . Let 's go , Tom . We 'll pay attention to the political situation , and you 'll be able to reveal your true identity when you 're proven innocent . Whatever else happens tonight , I hope the king escapes safely ! Lurk out of sight .
And you 're not to utter a syllable of Tranio 's name . " Tranio " is now " Lucentio . "
Mother , you 've insulted my father .
You 've already done something you should be sorry for . Your threats do n't scare me , Cassius , because I 'm so secure in my honesty and integrity that they pass me by like a weak breeze . I asked you for a certain amount of gold , which you would n't give me . I myself ca n't raise money by unethical means . I 'd rather turn my heart into money and my drops of blood into coins than use crooked tactics to wring petty cash from the hardworking hands of peasants . I asked you for gold to pay my soldiers , and you would n't give it to me . Was that the Caius Cassius that I knew ? And would I have ever done that to you ? If I ever get so greedy that I hoard such petty cash from my friends , may the gods dash me to pieces with their thunderbolts !
An escape ! An escape !
What are you doing , Caesar ? Are you planning to go out ? You 're not leaving the house today .
Now let it carry out its purpose immediately .
Is it morning , lords ?
What 's this noise ? Give me my long sword ! Come on !
The first one , the gold one , has an inscription that says , " He who chooses me will get what many men want . " The second one , the silver one , says , " He who chooses me will get what he deserves . " And this third one is made of dull lead . It has a blunt warning that says , " He who chooses me must give and risk all he has . " How will I know if I chose the right one ?
It must be fate that makes us who we are -- otherwise someone as good as Cordelia could not possibly be related to those two witches . Have you not spoken to her since then ?
You . And this is what you told me he said : that he beat you and pretended his house was n't his and I was n't his wife .
What , do n't courtiers ' hands sweat ? And is n't a sheep 's grease as wholesome as a man 's sweat ? That 's a poor example . A better example -- come on .
Your Grace can do whatever he wants .
Damn , I forgot .
No , he 's not . You 've been deceived . Cleopatra summoned him . He 's given his empire to a whore , and now they 're gathering kings to wage a war . He 's recruited Bocchus , the King of Libya ; Archelaus of Cappadocia ; Philadelphos , King of Paphlagonia ; the Thracian king , Adallas ; King Manchus of Arabia ; the King of Pont ; Herod , of Judea ; Mithridates , King of Comagen ; Polemon and Amyntas , the kings of Mede and Lycaonia , and many more .
In the public arena , where they perform sporting events . He proclaimed his sons to be kings of kings . He gave Media , Parthia , and Armenia to Alexander . He gave Syria , Cilicia , and Phoenicia to Ptolemy . Cleopatra was dressed like the goddess Isis . They say she often attended her public functions like that .
He 's married , madam .
Good monster ! Show us the way .
Come , everyone .
Yes , and she was mild too .
I 'll catch up with you . --
I had no reason , no reason .
Yes , they have .
No decent man can keep from sharing in the sorrow , but my news affects you alone .
Look , here he comes . Come here , Harry . Leave the room , and leave us here alone .
Yes , please tell me .
Why , what 's going on ? What 's the matter with you ?
He does n't miss a thing .
Is there no pity in the sky that can see my sadness ? Oh , my sweet mother , do n't throw me out ! Delay this marriage for a month , or a week . Or , if you do n't delay , make my wedding bed in the tomb where Tybalt lies .
Who , him ? He was some insignificant nobody who stole the horse he was riding and , I bet my life , was just talking nonsense . Look , here comes another messenger .
He called me Sebastian . I know my brother 's still alive in a sense , since I see him whenever I look in the mirror . My brother looked like me , and he dressed the same way that I 'm dressed now -- in the same colors ,
Some French people do n't have beards at all , because syphilis has made all their hair fall out , so you might have to play the part clean - shaven . - - But gentlemen , here are your scripts , and I beg you to please learn them by tomorrow night . Meet me in the duke 's forest a mile outside of town . It 's best to rehearse there , because if we do it here in the city , we 'll be bothered by crowds of people and everyone will know the plot of our play . Meanwhile , I 'll make a list of props that we 'll need for the play . Now make sure you show up , all of you . Do n't leave me in the lurch .
Yes , return and tell me if your master looks well , because he was sick when he left . And pay attention to what Caesar does and which men are close to him . Listen , boy ! What 's that noise ?
It must .
Goodbye , Helena . I hope Demetrius comes to love you as much as you love him !
It 's the truth . I 've got no money left . The jewels you took from me to deliver to Desdemona would 've made even a nun want to sleep with me . You told me she got them , and that she promised to give me a little something in return soon , but nothing like that ever happens .
Today our hopes are at an end . The Dauphin , whom we asked for reinforcements , sends back the answer that he 's not yet in a position to raise so great an army . Therefore , great king , we surrender our town and lives to your kind mercy . Enter our gates and do as you like with us and our possessions , for we cannot defend ourselves any longer .
Where 's he going ?
Why " Heart 's Ease " ?
Oh , yes . He carried messages back and forth between us very often .
Now it 's time to test your eloquence . On your way . Separate Cleopatra from Antony . In my name , promise to fulfill her petitions . You can make up additional offers , if necessary . Women are n't strong , even at their best . Hardship will make even a vestal abandon her vows . Use your ingenuity , Thidias . You can make your own conditions , which I will authorize as law .
This guy does n't pay much attention to punctuation .
Yes , it is , I think . Just read it .
Let 's hear about it right away and invite all the noblemen to listen . As for me , I welcome my good luck with sadness . I have some rights to claim this kingdom , and by arriving at this moment I have an opportunity to put them into effect .
Then rob the treasury right away , and do n't even delay long enough to wash your hands .
The clock 's just striking twelve . Go home to bed , Francisco .
We 're ruined ! There he is ! Renounce him ! Deny you know him or we 're sunk .
Say this : if my father sends a friendly answer , it is against my will . I want nothing but conflict with England . To that end , I presented him with the tennis balls , the perfect expression of his inexperience and frivolity .
He 's an admirable man .
A man as handsome as that ca n't have anything evil in him . If the devil had such a beautiful house as his body , then good things would fight to live in it .
Thanks a lot , mister . Here , drink to me .
Ah-ha ! Does she ?
Has he , sirs ? I 'm worried there will be someone worse to replace him .
Yes .
Must I bite ?
If the duke and his court agree to set aside the fine for one half of his property , I 'm happy , as long as he lets me have the other half in trust , to give it to the gentleman who recently stole his daughter . I only ask two more things . First , Shylock must immediately become a Christian . Second , he must make a will here in this court that leaves all his property to his son-in-law Lorenzo and his daughter when he dies .
I got a raw deal , to be out robbing with him . He stole my horse and tied him up someplace . If I have to walk even four feet more , I 'll be totally out of breath . Still , I bet I 'll die a natural death -- if I do n't get hanged for killing that jerk , that is . Every hour for the past twenty-two years , I 've sworn I 'd never talk to him again , but I love his company . He must have slipped me a love potion that makes me adore him . Damn , that must be it : I have drunk love potions . Poins ! Hal ! Drop dead , the both of you ! Bardolph ! Peto ! I 'll die if I have to walk another foot . If turning honest and abandoning these jerks were n't the best things I could possibly do for myself , then I 'm the worst scoundrel that ever lived . Eight yards of rough road is like seventy miles to me , and these hard-hearted crooks know it . It stinks when there 's no honor among thieves .
I 'll be honest with you , herald : I do n't even know who won the battle . I still see many of your horsemen galloping across the field .
What a long night this is ! I will not trade my horse for any that walks on four legs . He leaps from the ground as if his insides were light as hairs . He 's a flying horse , a Pegasus , breathing fire out of his nostrils . When I sit astride him , I soar , I am a hawk . He trots on air . The earth sings when he touches it . The lowest part of his hoof is more musical than Pan 's pipe .
I 'll go too and make sure that happens .
I was ordered not to . When the time comes , tell the herald to blow the trumpet and I 'll return .
Let him come forward .
Read the time there . Give me an almanac . Did anyone see the sun today ?
Tell me who shall have the better luck , Caesar or me ?
Only a giant could do you that friendship . Say your prayers , and farewell .
Come here , monster , put some glue on your fingers , and carry away the rest of these clothes for us .
Sick now ? Faint now ? His disease is infecting our entire project . It 's spread all the way to here , right to our camp . He writes that some internal illness -- and that his allies could n't be gathered so quickly by one of his deputies . Besides , he did n't think it was appropriate to delegate such a dangerous and important task to someone other than himself . But he also says that we should be bold and press on with our small contingent . For , as he writes , there 's no turning back now , since the King surely knows our plans . What do you think ?
Never mind , sir .
That was a poor unlucky beggar .
Laertes , I have a right to share your grief . Go choose your wisest friends , and have them listen to both of us and decide which of us is right . If directly or indirectly they find me implicated in your father 's murder , I 'll give up my kingdom , my crown , my life , and everything I call my own to you as restitution . But if they find me innocent , then be patient and I 'll work to satisfy to the fullest extent your deepest need for revenge .
Shut up , fatso ! Lie down , put your ear to the ground , and listen for the footsteps of travelers .
But if I cry out against pride in general , how can anyone say I 'm accusing a particular person ? Are n't we talking about a problem as vast as the sea , that keeps flowing until all the wealth in the world is almost used up by everyone showing off ?
Which one of them did it ? Let me see what he looks like , so when I see another man who resembles him , I 'll know to avoid him . Which one is it ?
I was just thinking that if people do n't interest you , you 'll be pretty bored by the actors on their way here . We crossed paths with a drama company just a while ago , and they 're coming to entertain you .
Come with me , my dear Cordelia .
Then why be jealous of a person like that ? When an evil thing has been lost , no one cries .
Go then , slave .
Yes , your Grace , that 's what he says .
I 'd prefer to seize the day . But I would rather abstain from everything for four days than drink so much in one .
You 're not being a good friend , Iago , if you even think your friend has been wronged and you do n't tell him about it .
Sir , whose troops are these ?
But despite all this , do n't say that Percy 's dead . I can see a strange sort of confession in your eyes . You shake your head ; you 're afraid to tell the truth , or you think it would be sinful . If he 's been killed , say so . The man who reports a death does n't offend with that report . To lie about the dead is a sin , but it is no sin to say that a dead man is not alive . It 's a losing situation , being the first man to bring unwelcome news . That man 's voice sounds forever like a sad bell , and it will always be remembered for tolling the death of a friend .
I 've gotten it dirty -- ashes to ashes , and dust to dust .
It 's sad , but Iago knows she had sex with Cassio a thousand times . Cassio confessed it , and she pledged her love to him by giving him the handkerchief I 'd given her . I saw it in his hand . It was an old memento that my father gave to my mother .
Oh , be quiet . You would n't have dared to tempt him so .
It 's bad times for all of us , sir , when you 're feeling gloomy .
What 's going on here ? Get away from each other .
If you do n't , we 're ready to fight to the last man .
If she punishes you , master , she 's sure to punish me .
Sir , I 'm too old to be taught anything . Do n't put me in the stocks . I serve the king , who sent me here . If you put me in the stocks you 'll insult him both as a king and as a man .
But if you see a wheel going uphill , latch on for the ride . And when a wise man gives you better advice than I just did , give me my advice back again . I only want idiots following my advice , the advice of a fool . The gentleman who serves you only for profit And is only superficially loyal to you Will take off when it starts to rain And leave you alone in the storm . But I 'll linger . The fool will stay . And let the wise man run away . The servant who runs away is a fool . But this fool is no scoundrel , by God .
Yes , hand me one too .
That 's what she was expecting , and you let her down . You wasted a golden opportunity , and now my lady thinks badly of you . You can only raise her opinion of you with some impressive act of courage or complicated intrigue .
Sound !
Did you just call me " beautiful " ? Take it back . You 're the beautiful one as far as Demetrius is concerned . Oh , you 're so lucky ! Your eyes are like stars , and your voice is more musical than a lark 's song is to a shepherd in the springtime . Sickness is contagious --I wish beauty were contagious too ! I would catch your good looks before I left . My ear would be infected by your voice , my eye by your eye , and my tongue would come down with a bad case of your melodious speech . If the world were mine , I 'd give it all up -- everything except Demetrius -- to be you .
Let them in .
I know that , sir . Look , here 's the necklace . I was on my way to take it to you at the Porcupine , but it took a little longer to finish than I thought it would .
Look at me , my lord .
I 'll recite something for you , guy .
Come on , men ! That 's the way to do it ! Quickly ! Quickly ! Take in the upper sail . Listen to the master 's orders . --Blow your heart out , storm ! So long as we have enough room to avoid running aground !
No , my good lord .
Give me your arm . Poor Tom will take you there .
What 's all the noise in here ?
guess there 's no need to be a thief in Ephesus . People come up to you in the street and hand you gold . I 'll go wait for Dromio at the marketplace . If any ships are sailing , I 'll get right on one .
I address the three of you , the sole rulers of this world and the main arbiters of the gods ' will . I do n't know why my father 's death should n't be avenged , since he has a son and friends to do it . You avenged Julius Caesar 's death at Philippi , where his ghost haunted his killer , Brutus . Why did Cassius conspire against Caesar ? And why did the honorable , well-intentioned Brutus and the others , men devoted to the ideal of freedom , assassinate Caesar ? They did n't want one man to be king in Rome . And that 's why I 've built my navy , which is so huge that the weight of the ships makes the sea foam with anger . I will punish Rome for her ingratitude toward my noble father .
Do n't deceive me .
I 've already had a glass of wine tonight , watered down , but look how drunk I am . I 'm not a heavy drinker . I would n't dare drink much more than that .
My name is Pistol .
Fifteen years ! That 's some nap . But I never spoke the whole time ?
Welcome , sir . This room 's my royal court . I have hardly any servants and no subjects outside this room . Please , have a look . Since you 've given my dukedom back to me , I 'll give you something equally nice , or at least I 'll give you an amazement to satisfy you as much as my dukedom satisfies me .
Is that the naked guy ?
To England ?
Go to my brother Cassius . Order him to advance his forces first thing , and we 'll follow .
You think it 's a big deal that this fierce storm is soaking me to the skin . It 's a big deal to you . But whenever you feel a larger pain , the smaller one disappears . You would run away from a bear , but if the only way to run was into the stormy ocean , you 'd turn around and confront the bear . When your mind is at peace , your body is sensitive to the elements . But this storm in my mind keeps me from feeling anything except what 's tormenting me -- how ungrateful my children are ! Is n't their ingratitude like the mouth biting the hand that feeds it ? But I 'll punish them thoroughly . No , I wo n't cry any more . Imagine them locking me out on a night like this ! But let it rain ; I 'll survive . On a night like this ! Oh , Regan , Goneril , your kind old father whose generous heart gave you everything --Oh , if I think about that I 'll go mad . I want to avoid that . No more of these thoughts .
Your majesty , I wish I could be proven innocent of all those accusations , for I can certainly clear myself of many of them . But let me beg one favor of you : if I can demonstrate that I 'm not guilty of the false charges of these smiling flatterers and wretched gossips , then you will forgive me when I confess to the youthful indiscretions I actually did commit .
Get me some poison tonight , Iago . I wo n't argue with her , so her beautiful body wo n't disarm me . --Tonight , Iago .
A lot of words .
Run , run , oh , run !
What 's your message ?
What is it , gracious sir ?
Please , sweet husband , let me come with you as far as the town of Staines .
Me , a penny ?
Goodbye , black Moor . Treat Desdemona well .
Deliver this letter to Lord John of Lancaster , my brother . Give this one to Westmoreland .
Show her in .
Why , friends , you do n't even know what you 're doing yet . What has Caesar done to deserve your love ? Alas , you do n't know . I must tell you then . You 've forgotten the will I told you about .
The most important part of my message is for you , your grace . You , who are a holy man , and these good gentlemen as well -- you would not be here , lending dignity to this bloody insurrection , if it appeared as rebellion normally does : like a lowborn mob , led by bloody youths uniformed in rags , and supported by boys and beggars .
It 's true ! Oh God !
What a stupid man he 's become ! He was so sharp when he was in school .
Hortensio , what 's all this about ?
Excuse me , good Mercutio . I had very important business to take care of . It was so important that I had to forget about courtesy and good manners .
Are you asleep , my love ? What , are you dead , my dove ? Oh , Pyramus , get up ! Speak , speak . Ca n't you talk ? Dead , dead ? The dirt of a grave must cover your sweet eyes ! Your lily-white lips , your cherry-red nose , and your buttercup - yellow cheeks are gone , gone forever . Lovers , moan and weep . His eyes were as green as leeks . Oh , Fate , come , come to me , with hands as pale as milk . Soak your hands in blood and gore , since you have cut the thread of his life with scissors . Tongue , do not speak . Come , trusty sword . Come , blade , drench my breast with blood . Goodbye , friends ! This is how Thisbe comes to an end . Goodbye , goodbye , goodbye .
What could my sister 's letter to him say ?
Should we gather our troops and press forward ?
That was good planning , and you 'll sleep some more . I wo n't keep you very long . If I live through this , I 'll be good to you .
Damn , what a sneaky and spiteful course your mother is taking ! --Lord Cardinal , will you please persuade the queen to hurry and send the duke of York here?- -Go with him , Lord Hastings , and if she refuses , take the boy from her by force .
You 're a villain !
You son of a whore , you giant piece of candle wax , you said such horrible things about me just now , in front of this honest , upstanding and well-behaved lady .
It 's easy enough to say " soon . "
No , cousin , I 'm crying .
On a night like this , pretty Jessica , in a bad mood , said outrageously wrong things about her lover , and he forgave her .
Against my will , I 've been told to bring you in to dinner .
More , more , please , more .
You should know that when I came here I was prepared to accept your offer . But Mark Antony made me somewhat angry . Though it would be nobler to for me not to speak of this good act myself , you should know that when Caesar and your brother were fighting , your mother came to Sicily for refuge . I welcomed her gladly .
Men are always merry in the face of bad situations , but a heavy heart predicts a happy event .
Beat --
Better than I was before .
So is it really revenge for me if I kill Claudius right when he is confessing his sins , in perfect condition for a trip to heaven ? No. Away , sword , and wait for a better moment to kill him . When he 's sleeping off some drunken orgy , or having incestuous sex , or swearing while he gambles , or committing some other act that has no goodness about it -- that 's when I 'll trip him up and send him to hell with his heels kicking up at heaven . My mother 's waiting . The king 's trying to cure himself with prayer , but all he 's doing is keeping himself alive a little longer .
Miranda . --Oh father , I 've disobeyed you by telling him that !
Now , what kind of entertainment do we have to fill up the long three hours between dinner and bedtime ? Where is our entertainment director ? What performances have been prepared ? Are n't there any plays for us to enjoy while we wait in torture for bedtime to come ? Let me see Philostrate .
Hastings and Edward 's children , Rivers and Grey , holy King Henry and your fine son Edward , Vaughan , and all who have died from underhanded , corrupt , fiendish injustice , if your angry souls are witnessing this moment through the clouds , enjoy the revenge -- laugh at my ruin ! This is All - Souls ' day , fellows , is n't it ?
Did you leave on good terms ? Did he express any dissatisfaction with you , either in his words or his face ?
Even if she 's ugly , she 'll be smart enough to find a guy to sleep with her .
Do you have the flower ? Welcome , traveler .
I ca n't stay . I knew a girl who was married in an afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit . It could happen to you . Farewell , sir . My master has instructed me to go to Saint Luke 's to tell the priest to be ready in case you should show up with your better half .
Oh , you should have done it without telling me ! For me to do such a thing would be dishonorable . For you to do it would be good service . You should know that to me , profit is n't more important than honor , but the other way around . Regret that your mouth betrayed your actions . If you had acted without my knowledge , I would have approved your action later . But now I must condemn it . Give it up and go drink .
Oh , you mean when Beatrice writes a letter and Hero sees that it has " Benedick " and " Beatrice " written all over it ?
We hope that 's exactly what you 'll do .
I can hardly tell the difference ; I make my money multiply as fast as those sheep . But listen to me , signor --
Yes indeed it is , sir . Very humid , I ca n't tell you how humid it is . My lord , His Majesty wanted me to tell you that he 's placed a large bet on you . This is what it 's all about --
I 'll tell you what 's the matter --Nurse , leave us alone for a little while . We must talk privately --Nurse , come back here . I just remembered , you can listen to our secrets . You know how young my daughter is .
Well , then , be brave and pretend to be a man .
You 'll love this guy , Kate - -anyway , you 'd better ! Where are my slippers ? Can we have some water please here?- -
" Widow Dido , " did you say ? I 'm not sure about that . Dido was from Carthage , not Tunis .
He 's a shallow youngster . He would have made a good pantry servant : he would have been great at trimming the crusts off bread .
Couple a gorge is the word for what you 're trying to say . I defy you again . You dog , do you think you 'll take my wife ? No , go to the hospital , into the ward where they treat venereal disease , and get yourself a leprous , diseased prostitute like Doll Tearsheet and marry her .
That Julius Caesar was a famous man . His courage helped his cleverness , and his cleverness made sure that his reputation for being courageous outlived him . Death did n't conquer this conqueror , for he lives on in his fame , even though he 's dead . I 'll tell you what , my cousin Buckingham --
Please , just wait a minute . I 'm hoping my holy mood will pass . It usually only lasts about twenty seconds .
We 'll wait and see ; if the chicks follow your lead -- if Hero is ready to love Claudio -- then we 'll know you 're telling the truth .
And what about him , Tranio ?
I 'm Christopher Sly . Do n't call me " your Honor " and " your Lordship . " I 've never had imported wine in my life , and if you want to bring me something " dried , " try beef jerky . Why ask me what " garment " I 'll wear ? I have no more jackets than I have backs , no more leggings than I have legs , and no more shoes than I have feet -- in fact , sometimes I have fewer shoes than feet , as I 'm not sure the ones where my toes stick out can be called " shoes . "
I 'm coming .
I give myself to you , for I am yours . I give myself to you , for I am yours .
What makes you say that ?
Chop my head off if I 'm wrong . I 'll follow the clues and uncover the truth , even if it 's at the very center of the earth .
You ca n't find that out , even if you held my heart in your hand you could n't make me tell you . And as long my heart 's inside my body , you never will .
Miss Mary , if you cared what Lady Olivia thinks about you at all , you would n't contribute to this rude behavior . I assure you , she 'll find out about this .
Anyone full of hot air is a problem . But here 's some money . The general likes your music a lot , but he asks you to stop playing now .
My sweet lord , you 're cheating .
Goodbye .
Were you talking about Juliet ? How is she ? Does she think that I 'm a practiced murderer because I tainted our newfound joy by killing one of her close relatives ? Where is she ? How is she doing ? What does my hidden wife say about our ruined love ?
I am dying , Cleopatra , dying . I just beg death to wait awhile , until I place the last of our many thousands of kisses on your lips .
That was me , but it 's not me -- I 'm not ashamed to tell you what I once was , since I 'm so happy to have since converted .
No. You dishonor yourself and our relationship by thinking that .
I think we 'll have to leave out all the killing , come to think of it .
I knew Temperance - -she was a fine girl .
This makes me feel so much better !
May honor , riches , marriage blessings , Long life , and unending joys come to you . Juno sings her blessings onto you .
Have you given me bastard children to raise ? All right , then .
You 're of royal blood , and we obey you .
Geese , you idiot ?
Who 's making such a ruckus at the door ?
Tell us something about him . Come on , tell us something .
Which of us are you referring to ?
Oh my lover , where are you roaming ? Stay and listen ! Your true love 's coming , the one who can sing both high and low : Do n't roam any further , pretty darling . Your journey ends when you meet a lover , as every wise man 's son knows .
Well , okay . For once in my life , I 'll be a little crazy .
Stanley , Richmond is your wife 's son . Get information from her .
I swear , sweetheart , you seem to be in a great temporality . Your temporality is beating as strongly as you could want , and your color is as red as a rose ; truly ! But seriously , I do think you 've drank too much of that sweet wine from the Canary Islands -- it 's a mighty powerful drink , and it 'll get into your blood faster than you can say , " What 's this ? " How are you feeling now ?
I have to go . If I stay longer , I 'll embarrass you and disgrace myself by crying . I 'm leaving now .
Break it up , you fools . Put your swords away . You do n't know what you 're doing .
Look , now that it 's gone , I 'm a man again . Please , remain seated .
Me too , I wo n't , I swear to God .
I wish we could do that , because Fortune gives all of her gifts to the wrong people , and she especially gets things wrong where women are concerned .
Oh , so cruel ! Oh dear gods !
I wo n't be kind to you .
I am . I like it better than laughing .
Why , sir , I spent it on this rope .
Prison , my lord ?
Tell me ! I want very much to find out .
Nobody delivered it , my lord . That 's what 's clever about it . It was tossed into the window of my room .
You are better at proverbs than I am by as much as " A fool shoots quickly and overshoots his mark . "
He 's a very proper man .
That 's right . That 's not how I do business .
That " solely " is very much to the point . Sir , hear me out : I am my father 's only son and , as such , his sole heir . If you give me your daughter 's hand in marriage , she will end up with three or four houses in Pisa as good as any one that Gremio has in Padua -- not to mention the two thousand ducats a year that my land earns me . All of which I 'll leave her in my will . Did I see you flinch , Signior Gremio ?
Yes . I 'm offering to pay it back right this moment -- even twice the sum . If that 's not enough , I 'll sign a contract to pay ten times that much , and I 'll give you my hands , my head , and my heart as security . If that 's not enough , then you 're just evil and malicious . -- I beg you , just this once , use your authority to bend the law . Do a great right by doing a little wrong . Do n't let this devil have his way .
One thing , dear Queen : request honor , as well as safety , from Caesar . Oh !
I do n't know , father .
Come on , relax , dear . Put on a happy face and look cheerful and agreeable for your guests tonight .
And thus I let you go and give you to the gods .
Then a third of the world is drunk . I wish it were all drunk . Then everything would go more smoothly .
I know you . How are you , my friend ?
Do it , I say . You can begin with her .
Oh , moon , you queen of sadness , drop poisonous dew on me so that my life , which continues against my wishes , will end . Take my heart and throw it against my hard , stony sin . My heart , which dried out with grief , will surely break apart into a powder , and that will be the end of my disgusting mind . Oh , Antony ! You are more noble than my revolt is dishonorable . Forgive my crimes against you , but let history record me as a fugitive traitor . Oh , Antony ! Oh , Antony !
And then throw the seeds in the sea , to make more islands grow .
It was a total fluke that you yourself were saved .
You did well . You know the scripture : " Wisdom cries out in the street but no man listens . "
Your highness will have to force me to tell .
Pretty York , who told you about his teeth ?
Sir , I decided it was appropriate to send the pathetic old king to a guarded prison cell . His old age and his title make him so popular among the commoners that I was worried our enlisted soldiers would turn against us on his behalf . I sent the French queen with him too , for the same reason . They 're ready to meet with you tomorrow , or whenever you like , wherever you 'd like to hold your hearing . These are difficult times . Many have lost friends in battle , and soldiers will curse even a justified war if it causes them pain . We need a more appropriate place to discuss Cordelia and her father .
But it is his handwriting ?
Then my children will probably be illegitimate . Tell me , please : how many boys and girls will I have ?
Judging what you deserve is one thing . Offending you is something very different , so I 'll keep my mouth shut .
Are you acting so boldly from hardship or because you despise good manners ? Why do you seem so lacking in civility ?
No , because we should n't be doing that -- stuff . Oh well , God 's in charge , and some people have to go to heaven , while other people have to go to hell .
I 'll give up my comb , if you 'll be my hen .
Let go of me ! Do n't tug on my clothes .
Yes , right now . So confess your sin freely now . Even if you swear you 're innocent of every accusation , you wo n't change my mind or remove the thought that 's tormenting me . You 're going to die .
There 's blood on your face .
No. I 'll stay here with the King .
I hope God makes you happy again , like you once were .
You taught me language , and all I can do with it is curse . Damn you for teaching me your language !
No , Cassio was n't killed .
My evidence that you have wronged me is that you condemned and disgraced Lucius Pella for taking bribes here from the Sardinians , and you ignored my letters , where I argued that he was innocent ; I know the man .
A Daniel , I keep saying it ! A second Daniel ! --Thank you , Jew , for teaching me that word .
This way , my lord .
No.
I go over hills and valleys , through bushes and thorns , over parks and fenced-in spaces , through water and fire . I wander everywhere faster than the moon revolves around the Earth . I work for Titania , the Fairy Queen , and organize fairy dances for her in the grass . The cowslip flowers are her bodyguards . You 'll see that their petals have spots on them -- those are rubies , fairy gifts . Their sweet smells come from those little freckles . Now I have to go find some dewdrops and hang a pearl earring on every cowslip flower . Goodbye , you dumb old spirit . I 've got to go . The queen and her elves will be here soon .
All we do is sit and sit and eat and eat .
Dromio ?
Good morning , lieutenant . I 'm sorry about what happened , but I 'm sure everything will turn out all right . The general and his wife are talking about it now , and she 's defending you strongly . The Moor says the man you hurt is very important in Cyprus , and that under the circumstances he has no choice but to refuse to reinstate you . But he says he still loves and respects you , and based on his own feelings alone he 's looking for an opportunity to safely take you back .
You can decide that privately . I do n't care whether she stays or goes . What 's important is the urgency of this mission . You 've got to act fast .
My sovereign lord , join us quickly : the French are all arrayed in battle formation and will charge us at any moment .
It 's good for men to be given an example of how to take pleasure in discomfort . It eases the spirit . And when the mind is engaged , the rest of the body , dead and dull before , wakes up and comes to life with a new nimbleness and sensitivity , like a snake shedding its dead skin . Lend me your cloak , Sir Thomas . Brothers , give my regards to the princes in our camp . Say good day to them from me and ask them to come to my tent .
Alas , why would you heap all these responsibilities on me ? I am unfit to rule and to be king . Please , do n't take it badly , but I cannot and will not give in to you .
Good morning , gentlemen . We go our separate ways .
" You must stop being such a drunk . "
Me , uncle ?
He 's a trustworthy servant . Often , when I 'm dulled by worry and melancholy , he lightens my mood with his merry pranks . Listen , will you walk with me around the town and then dine with me at the inn ?
It 's amazing , if I may say so , that she let herself be tamed .
My God , what a great song !
While history books record that men of your nobility and power dedicated themselves to as unjust a cause as the overthrowing of Richard , that sweet lovely rose , and the planting of this thorn , this weed , Bolingbroke in Richard 's place ? Will you listen as people say that you are fools , and that you 've been tossed away by the very person you shamed yourselves to help ? No. There is still time for you to redeem your reputations and restore your good names in the eyes of the world . Take revenge against this King who mocks and scorns you . He thinks constantly about how to repay you for all you did -- by putting you to death . So I say --
Would you rather hear these things from our mouths or from our master 's ?
He 's not a crescent moon , so his horns must be invisible inside the circle .
I 'm right behind you , Stephano . Are you coming monster ?
Good pilgrim , you do n't give your hand enough credit . By holding my hand you show polite devotion . After all , pilgrims touch the hands of statues of saints . Holding one palm against another is like a kiss .
Just the weathervane moving .
Pull out your tool now . These guys are from the house of Montague .
Brutus , I misunderstood your feelings , and therefore kept to myself certain thoughts I might have shared . Tell me , good Brutus , can you see your face ?
You both know Banquo was your enemy .
What did Northumberland say about Richmond ?
Then screw your position ! Sir John , your tender little lamb is now the king . Henry the Fifth 's the man , and I speak the truth . When Pistol tells a lie , do this and tell me to go screw myself , like some crazy Spaniard .
I still wish your father were here . Our endeavor here wo n't withstand any division . People who do n't realize your father is sick will assume that he knows some kind of secret , or that he is loyal to the King , or that he does n't approve of how we 're handling things . And just imagine how that kind of mistrust could frighten our more timid supporters , and lead them to doubt us . You know very well that the challenger must always avoid careful examination . We must seal every crack , every loophole , which skeptics might look through to see weaknesses . Your father 's absence draws the curtains back and reveals frightful things to ignorant people , who had never had a reason to fear before .
Well then , you are no virgin . Leonato , I 'm sorry you have to hear this . I swear on my honor that we saw and heard Hero talking to a brute at her window last night . And that man confessed at length how he has secretly come to her bedroom thousands of times .
Stay ! Speak ! Speak ! I order you , speak !
It 's entirely possible . He 's incredibly fickle -- his affection changes faster than the latest fashions .
I swear , as an honest woman , that they were made of expensive fabric , eight shillings an ell . Besides , you owe me money for food and drink , plus twenty-four pounds I lent you .
Here , sir .
Master Gower , would you like to join me for lunch ?
By his dress I can tell he 's my countryman , but I do n't recognize him .
At Basingstoke , sir .
Amen . And make me die a good old man ! That should be the point of a mother 's blessing . I 'm surprised my mother forgot to make it .
I did that and more , which brings me to the point of this second meeting . Are you so patient and forgiving that you 're going to let him off the hook ? Are you so pious that you would pray for this man and his children , a man who has pushed you toward an early grave and put your family in poverty forever ?
He has almost finished dinner . Why did you leave the dining room ?
Welcome , welcome to all of you . --Oh , you , I 'm glad to see you . --Welcome , my good friends . --Oh , it 's you ! You 've grown a beard since I saw you last . Are you going to put a beard on me too ? --Well hello , my young lady friend . You 've grown as much as the height of a pair of platform shoes at least ! I hope your voice has n't changed yet . --All of you are most welcome here . We 'll get right to business . First , a speech . Come on , give us a little speech to whet our appetites . A passionate speech , please .
Can I have a word with you ?
I was working through my wonder when you arrived . Look at what I found on a palm tree . I have n't been rhymed about like this since my past life , when I was an Irish rat , but I can hardly remember that .
I hope things go well there . Good - bye ! And let 's hope things do n't get worse .
Mistress and master , you 've often asked about that lovelorn shepherd you once saw me sitting with , the one who complained about the disdainful shepherdess he was in love with .
I like your new wig and headdress , though I 'd like it more if the hair were a shade browner . And your gown is really stylish . You know , I saw the Duchess of Milan 's gown , the one that everyone praises so highly .
Oh , say it , and mean it !
I 'm glad Casca is with us . What a fearful night this is ! Two or three of us have seen strange things .
The word is too good to represent her wickedness . She is worse than wicked . If you can think of a more awful title , I 'll call her that . But do n't keep wondering without more proof . Come with me tonight , and you 'll see a man enter her bedroom chamber -- even tonight , the night before her wedding . If you still love her after that , then marry her tomorrow . But you would be more honorable if you changed your mind .
Oh , is that Kent ? There 's no time for polite greetings .
Anything .
Here comes the herald of the French , my liege .
Call the musicians in from the other room .
If you did , I do n't care .
You did .
How did he end up dead ? Do n't mess with me . To hell with my vows of allegiance to you ! Vows can go to hell ! Conscience , too ! I do n't care if I 'm damned . I do n't care what happens to me in this world or the next . Whatever happens , happens , but I 'll get revenge for my father 's murder .
There were no outbursts . She was struggling between emotion and self - control . You 've seen how it can rain while the sun shines ? That 's how she was , smiling and crying at once , only more lovely . The little smile on her full lips did n't seem aware of the tears that were dropping like diamonds from her pearly eyes . If everyone looked so lovely in their sorrow , then sorrow would be highly prized .
Everything 's fine .
And I 'd say to him , " Cousin Toby , since I 've been lucky enough to marry your niece , I have the right to say a few things to you -- "
My lord , my lord --
Have I lived this long only to be the butt of a joke whenever you 're angry or frustrated ?
They are his dung , and he their beetle .
You will get back your rightful property and titles , along with new honors that you have more than deserved . --My friends and allies will be rewarded for their support , and my enemies will get what they deserve . Look , look !
Who 's going to lead his troops against us ?
Listen , Signor Bassanio , there 's nothing to worry about . I 'll be solemn - looking , I 'll talk with respect , and I 'll only swear once in a while . I 'll carry prayer books in my pocket and look sweet -- even more . While grace is being said , I 'll be modest and say " amen " --I 'll watch my manners as if I 'm trying to please my grandma . If I do n't do all this , never trust me again .
Master Fer ! I 'll fer him , and firk him , and firk him : expound as much to him in French .
My lord , this bill that 's being proposed is the same one that was proposed in the eleventh year of old King Henry 's reign . Everyone thought it would pass then , and it probably would have had it not been for the great civil unrest and uncertainty of the time , which required the matter to be put off .
What blocks of wood ! They would n't say anything ? Are n't the mayor and his fellow citizens coming ?
No , we can just announce the actor 's name , and let his face show through the lion costume , and have him say something himself . He should say the following , or something else to the same defect -- " Ladies , " or " Lovely ladies , " " I would like to ask you " or " I would like to request of you " or " I would like to beg you " " not to be afraid , and not to tremble with fear . I value your lives as highly as my own . If you thought I was a real lion , I would be risking my life . But no , I am not at all a lion . I am a man , just like other men . " And then he should say his name , and tell them plainly that he 's Snug the carpenter .
Yes , his chest ! That 's what the contract says , does n't it , judge ? " Nearest his heart . " --Those are the very words .
You there , Biondello , go and request that my wife come to me straight away .
Protect me , my friends . I 've only been hurt , not killed .
And what are you going to do after you 've spent your money ? Beg ? Well , sir , go inside . I 'm not going to be bothered by you for long . You 'll get some of what you want . Now please leave me alone .
Very pale , sir .
You villain , you 'd better be able to prove my wife 's a whore ! Be sure of it . Get me proof I can see . If you ca n't , trust me , you wo n't want to feel my rage !
For worms , brave Percy . Farewell , brave soul . Your ambition , aimed at evil , ends -- look at how withered it has become . When this body contained a soul , an entire kingdom was too small to hold it . But now , two paces of wretched earth is plenty of room . The ground that you lie dead upon does n't have a single living man upon it as brave as you . If you could hear me , I would n't praise you so lavishly . But let me cover your battered face with part of my uniform . I 'll thank myself on your behalf for doing these rites of respect . Adieu , and take my praise of you to heaven . Let your disgraces sleep with you in the grave , and let them be kept off your tombstone !
Oh God , what a heinous sinner I am , being ashamed to be my father 's child ! But I need to remember I 'm related to him by blood , not behavior . Oh Lorenzo , if you keep your promise to me , I 'll end this agony by becoming a Christian and marrying you .
Okay . I 'll go . Get everything together and meet me in Eastcheap tomorrow . I 'll eat there . Farewell .
Go , get out of here . I 'm not going anywhere .
Oh , noble Caesar !
Sure , or anything else you show him . As long as you are n't ashamed to show it , he wo n't be ashamed to tell you what it means .
Do n't insult my master 's generosity by killing yourself . The world will see how noble he is by the way he treats you . Your death would prevent that .
I 've kept track of him , and reports of his affairs arrive on every ship . Where do you think he is now ?
What 's going on ? What did you mean by not helping me ? By God , I 'm going to tell the duke how slack you 've been .
Give me your love instead , as I give you mine . Good - bye .
You 'll have to bear with me . Please forgive and forget . I 'm old and foolish .
I never promised you my faith . I promised to make good on the grievances you complained of . And , on my honor , I will do that as carefully as possible . But now , you rebels will get exactly what you deserve for the things you 've done . You raised armies over nothing , brought them here stupidly , and then foolishly sent them away . Bang on our drums ! Capture the soldiers who are scattering away . God , not we , has fought today and won . Guards , escort these traitors to the place of their death . That 's where treason belongs , and where they 'll draw their last breath .
Right , and I did , sir . There 's no time to get back hair that 's fallen out .
But the country was more frightened than hurt , my liege . Take this example : when all its knights have been in France and all its noblemen absent , England has not only defended itself well , but actually seized the Scottish king and penned him up like a stray dog . Then he was sent off to France . He enhanced King Edward 's fame , adding royalty to his captives and thus making England 's own history as rich with glory as the muddy floor of the sea is rich with sunken ships and innumerable treasures .
And just in time , here he comes with Sir Richard Ratcliffe .
Then take my daughter , both as my gift to you and as something you have earned . But if you have sex with her before the marriage ceremony takes place , the heavens will not bless your relationship , but will overwhelm you with hate , contempt , and discord , and will poison your marriage bed so that you both grow to loathe it . So be careful , and make sure you respect the holy institution of marriage .
I pray to God that what I have to say is worth welcoming , my lord . The Earl of Westmoreland , with seven thousand men , is marching this way . Prince John is with him .
The eldest of the three brothers wrestled with Charles , the duke 's wrestler . Immediately , Charles threw the brother , breaking three of his ribs ; it 's not likely he will survive . Charles did the same to the second brother , and the third . They 're lying over there , and the poor old man , their father , weeps so piteously over them that the whole audience has joined him in grieving .
The noise is coming from over there . Tyrant , show your face ! If someone other than me kills you , the ghosts of my wife and children will haunt me forever . I ca n't be bothered to fight these lame soldiers who only fight for money . I 'll either fight you , Macbeth , or else I 'll put down my sword unused . You must be over there . By the great noise , it sounds like one of the highest-ranking men is being announced . I hope I find him ! I ask for nothing more than that .
You , who are neither honest nor good . When did I ever do you any harm ? Or you ? Or you ? Or any of you ? Damn you all ! The king -- whom I hope God will protect better than you would like -- ca n't get a minute 's rest without you bothering him with your outrageous complaints .
Oh , do n't worry about it , sir . No offense taken .
A " thing , " my lord ?
What 's up , my man ?
Is that possible ?
Did Butler bring those horses from the sheriff ?
My pretty children , both of you misunderstand me . I 'm lamenting the sickness of the king , because I 'd hate to lose him --I 'm not mourning your father 's death . What would be the point of crying over someone who was already dead ?
Awaken , and have faith that the wrongs Richard carries in his heart will defeat him ! Awaken , and win the day !
Did you call , sir ?
Listen to him speaking in quarter notes ! Get on with your note - playing now .
I am no tyrant but a Christian king , whose emotions are as tightly controlled as the wretches who languish in our prisons . Therefore tell me the Dauphin 's mind frankly and without constraint .
Where are you going , man ?
Well , I would n't want to undo the naughtiness , since the boy turned out so well .
I 'm amazed how similar you and your daughters are . They want to whip me for telling the truth , you want to whip me for lying , and sometimes I 'm even whipped for keeping quiet . I 'd rather be anything besides a fool . And yet I would n't want to be you , uncle . When you gave away pieces of your kingdom , it 's as if you cut off pieces on both sides of your brain and left nothing in the middle . Here comes the owner of one piece .
Test me , my blessed king .
I 'll fight you .
All the water in Wye cannot wash your Majesty 's Welsh blood out of your body . I can tell you that . God bless it and preserve it , as long as it pleases his Grace , and his Majesty , too !
Why are they shouting ? I 'm afraid the people have made Caesar their king .
Have you heard any news of impending battle ?
Finally , at long last , we 've reconciled our differences . Now is the time -- when war is safely over -- to laugh at past dangers and adventures . My fair Bianca , bid my father welcome , while I with equal affection welcome yours . Brother Petruchio , sister Katherina , and you , Hortensio , with your loving widow , you 'll find no better entertainment anywhere . All of you are welcome in my house . This last course here is for closing up the stomach after great feasting . Now everyone be seated , as this is the part where we sit and chat as well as eat .
Yes , she said that . I must go report what happened .
Oh , sir , impetuous people learn their lessons from the consequences of their foolish actions . Lock the doors . His attendants are desperate , violent men . I 'm afraid of what they might encourage him to do , considering the state he 's in .
Ah yes , good-bye to you both .
Strawberries grow underneath nettle plants , and berries grow best when they 're planted next to inferior fruit . In the same way , the prince hid his serious side under the guise of wild behavior . Just like summer grass , which grows fastest during the night , this sober quality was able to grow and thrive all the better for being undetected .
I wo n't bother with it . Conscience makes a man a coward . If he steals , it accuses him . If he wants to swear , it restrains him . If he sleeps with his neighbor 's wife , it exposes him . It blushes , is easily embarrassed , and stages regular uprisings in a man 's heart . It 's just too much trouble . It once made me return a purse full of money that I found -- it turns anyone who treats it decently into a beggar . It has been thrown out of all sorts of towns and cities it visits , and anyone who wants to live well should learn to trust only himself and live without it .
I went somewhere where I learned that being disobedient to my father is a sin . Holy Father Lawrence instructed me to fall on my knees and beg your forgiveness . Forgive me , I beg you . From now on I 'll do whatever you say .
And I 'll use that piece of rope to welcome you with .
You moron , you denied having any gold , and you told me about a mistress and a lunch . And I hope you realized I was n't very happy about it .
Oh , what a long , tedious , exhausting night ! I wish it would end . I wish the comforting light of day would shine so I can go back to Athens and get away from these people who hate me so much . I hope I 'll be able to sleep and escape my troubles for a while . People can sometimes forget their difficulties when they 're asleep .
Go , go , good countrymen , and to make up for having done wrong , gather up all the poor men like yourselves , lead them to the Tiber , and weep into the river until it overflows its banks .
Follow him on foot , and get him on board as quickly as possible . Do n't waste any time . I want him out of here tonight . Go now ; everything else is ready . Please hurry .
If even the happiest youth could read this book , he 'd look at the course of his life -- the dangers he 's endured , the challenges that still lie ahead -- and he 'd shut that book , sit down and die . It was less than ten years ago that Richard and Northumberland loved each other . Then two years later , they were at war . Just eight years ago , Northumberland was the man closest to my heart . Like a brother , he devoted himself to me , dedicating both life and limb to my cause . He even challenged Richard on my behalf . But which of you was there -- I think it was you , Warwick -- when Richard , his eyes brimming with tears because of Northumberland 's rebellion , spoke these words that now seem prophetic : " Northumberland , you are the ladder that Bolingbroke has climbed to get to the throne . " Although , God knows , it was n't my intention then to become king . But the country needed it so badly , I was forced to rise up and become great . " The time will come , " Richard continued , " when this terrible sin , growing in size , will break out into corruption . " That 's how he went on . He predicted our current condition , and the collapse of our alliances .
Damned Iago ! You inhuman dog !
Certainly , as soon as you 've gotten the most important thing -- her love . That counts for everything .
Cicero is dead , by their decree . Have you received letters from your wife , my lord ?
Start walking , and with an energized heart , I 'll follow you -- to what , I do n't know , but I 'm satisfied , simply knowing that Brutus leads me .
And what about that ?
Where 's your sparkle now ?
Monster , I smell like horse piss , which is making my nose pretty upset .
Well , are n't you a good man ?
The enemy 's in sight . Prepare your troops . The reconnaissance operation has returned this estimate of the enemy 's manpower and weaponry . But now , please hurry .
I 'm not talking about the King . You did n't come when I sent for you .
Flee ? Not us .
No , Mortimer is n't there .
Do you recognize my voice , noble lord ?
Nothing that I know for sure , but a lot that I 'm afraid might happen . Good morning to you . The street is narrow here . The crowd that follows Caesar at his heels -- senators , justices , common petitioners -- will suffocate a feeble man almost to death . I 'll move to a more open place and there speak to great Caesar as he walks past .
What , you 're yelling before you 've even been pricked ?
That 's true . She 's riding me hard , and all I want to do is get out of here . I must be as stupid as an ass -- that 's why I do n't know her , but she knows me .
Only the King is as frightening as the lion . You think I 'm as scared of you as I am of your father ? If I am , I pray to God for my belt to break .
See ! Even Antony , who stays up all night partying , is awake . Good morning , Antony .
La main , " de hand " ; les doigts , " de fangres . " I think I am a very apt student ! I have learned two words of English already . What is the word for les ongles ?
I 'll bet that , before the year ends , we 'll launch an invasion of France . I heard a little bird singing about it , and I think the music pleased the King . Come , will you leave with me ?
Swear by your shield , too ! He 's getting better , but still it 's not his best . See , Charmian , how well this mighty Roman portrays anger ?
Do n't worry , Baptista , you 'll be perfectly satisfied . You 'll see . Now I 'm going inside to see that someone pays for this mischief .
Well then , sing a lullaby to your generosity : it 'll nap until I come back . But do n't think I 'm doing this because I 'm greedy . I 'll be back soon to wake up your generosity .
What do you mean ?
I 'm doing so . Good Portia , go to bed .
It 's undeniable . You are welcome here , sister . I beg you to continue to be patient . My dearest sister !
He came with flowers to spread on his lady 's grave . And he asked me to stand far away and leave him alone , and so I did . Then someone with a torch came to open the tomb . So my master drew on him . And then I ran away to call the watch .
I 'm strong - willed . He wo n't get the better of me .
How long has he been there ?
Oh , I 'm heartbroken . I 'm divided between two friends who are determined to kill each other .
It 's been thirty years since we were married .
Did you hear that ! He sees himself in my two eyes , so there 's two of him . He should swear by his two-faced self , and that 's an oath I 'll believe !
You 've got something for me ? It 's a common thing --
Good evening to your Worship , good Captain James .
Do n't you know ?
Oh , I 'm sick , sick !
No I do n't , believe me .
Would n't it be better -- since I 'm unusually tall for a woman -- to dress myself like a man ? I 'll wear a big sword in my belt , carry a boar - spear in my hand , and hide all my womanish fear in my heart . We 'll maintain a swaggering , warrior look , like so many cowardly men , whose manner has nothing to do with what they 're feeling .
It 's impossible for him not to see himself in Antony .
Is it that aggressive ?
Come on , let 's go !
Harry . In speech , bearing , and diet ; in inclinations toward pleasure , in military actions , and in moods , he was the target , mirror , example , and rulebook that other men followed . And him --Oh wondrous him ! Oh miracle of men ! -- you left him ! The best man in the world , unsupported by you , faced the hideous god of war from a position of weakness . His only defense was the sound of his own name , and that is how you left him . Never insult his memory by letting your honor count more with strangers than with him . Leave them alone : Marshal Mowbray and the Archbishop are strong . If my darling Harry had had half their army , I might be hanging on his neck today , talking about Prince Hal 's grave .
Yes , gentle cousin , if it were light enough for you .
Enough from you , mister , you 're being impertinent . Unlike those born into nobility , your claim to royalty is so recent that you hardly even know what it means to lose it . People in high positions are shaken by many blasts of wind , and when they fall , they shatter into pieces .
What a pain .
Look who 's coming .
I 'll give you some wind to sail there .
Do n't say no . Let me go with you to Belmont .
I 'll give you a greater gift than that , nephew .
I 'll show you where to get fresh water . I 'll pick berries for you . I 'll fish for you and get you plenty of firewood . The tyrant I 'm serving now can go to hell ! I wo n't get any more wood for him . I 'm serving you now , you wonderful man .
You have n't seen anything , then ?
I am willing to fight you if I must . What do you mean by all this ?
My lord ?
Please , young sir . We 'll make sure your reputation is n't hurt ; we 'll take it upon ourselves to argue with the duke that the wrestling match should be called off .
My lord , you used to like me .
Some of the gems had wedged themselves like imitation eyes into the dead men 's skulls . The fake eyes gazed dully at the bones scattered around .
Play me some music . Music feeds the melancholy moods of us lovers .
Hey , naked guy --
And how would we go about doing that ? Can you bring me to him ?
Did he lose a lot of money in a shipwreck ? Has a close friend of his died ? Has he fallen in love with another woman ? That 's a sin young men often commit because they allow their eyes to wander . Which of these bad things happened to him ?
I will be sure he can , before I make the loan . And I 'll think of a way to be sure . Can I speak with Antonio ?
Sir , please come home with me to dinner .
Oh , no . God forbid ! The boy was going to support me in my old age !
On my honor , I swear I love Rivers with all my heart .
The god of love He sits in heaven above And he knows me , he knows me He knows how much pity I deserve -- I 'm really a pitiful singer . But as a lover , well , that 's another story . Take Leander , Troilus , or an entire book 's worth of those legendary lover - boys , whose names sound so smooth and nice in a line of verse -- not one of them has been driven as crazy by love as I have been . But I ca n't prove it in a poem . I have tried . I ca n't think of any rhyme for " lady " but " baby , " which is a childish rhyme . The only rhyme for " scorn " I can come up with is Leander , Troilus -- a bit off for a love poem . Nothing rhymes with " school " but " fool , " and that 's a ridiculous jingle . These are all very unpromising line endings . No , I was n't destined to be a poet , and I ca n't woo a lady with pretty words .
That 's because the murderer is alive .
The hell with order ! I 'm going back into battle . Let life be short so that shame wo n't last too long .
Mistress ! Hey , mistress ! Juliet ! I bet she 's fast asleep . Hey , lamb ! Hey , lady ! Hey , you lazy bones ! Hey , love , I say ! Madam ! Sweetheart ! Hey , bride ! What , you do n't say a word ? You take your beauty sleep now . Get yourself a week 's worth of sleep . Tomorrow night , I bet , Count Paris wo n't let you get much rest . God forgive me . Alright , and amen . How sound asleep she is ! I must wake her up . Madam , madam , madam ! Yes , let the count take you in your bed . He 'll wake you up , I bet . Wo n't he ? What ? You 're still dressed in all your clothes . But you 're still asleep . I must wake you up . Lady ! Lady ! Lady ! Oh no , oh no ! Help , help ! My lady 's dead ! Oh curse the day that I was born ! Ho ! Get me some brandy ! My lord ! My lady !
Hamlet , you 've insulted your father .
Well , she got away . Signior Tranio , you also took aim at that bird , though you did n't hit her . --So here 's a health to all who 've shot and missed .
Well gentlemen , we 've heard our assignment . Let 's sit here on the church bench until two and then go off to bed .
Oh , good , I am too .
The kind that tells you that the Moor is having sex with your daughter right now .
You 've come to tell me something . Tell me quickly .
Go pinch your cheeks and bring some color back into your face , you cowardly boy . What soldiers , fool ? Curse you ! That pale face of yours will frighten the others as well . What soldiers , milk - face ?
Yes , he can pay a fine for a wig and then recover another man 's lost hair .
I 'm sorry about that , sir .
Sir , I 'm as good as my word . What you heard here a minute ago was just a color ; it was a pretense .
Where 's my father ?
Officers , take them away . Guard them carefully until we decide how to punish them .
Who 's Thisbe ? A knight on a quest ?
No , we 're just somewhere in the middle , my lord .
No , I 'm as honest as I am Christian . If only letting my husband touch my body means I 'm not a whore , I 'm not a whore .
What an egomaniac !
I swear to God I wo n't .
You have my consent . You can be married tomorrow if you want . I 'll invite the duke and all of his followers . Go get Aliena ready -- because , look , here comes my Rosalind .
Today he fought as though he were a god who hated mankind .
Why are you whispering ? Are you sick ?
If you 'd known how much that ring meant , how much the woman who gave it to you is worth , or how much your honor depended on your keeping the ring , you would n't have let it go . Who would be so unreasonable as to insist on taking the ring if you 'd defended it with any kind of zeal ? Who would have had so little self-restraint that they 'd insist on getting a ring with ceremonial value ? Nerissa 's got the right idea . I 'll bet my life you gave some woman the ring !
Relax , gentlemen . I 've made my choice . If she and I are happy , what 's it to you ? When we were alone , we agreed that in public she would go on being unpleasant . I tell you , though , it 's incredible how much she loves me . Darling Kate ! She hung about my neck , smothering me with kisses , making vow after vow . In this way , she won my heart lickety-split ! You men are rank beginners ! It 's amazing how even a timid wretch can tame the most dreadful shrew , if the two are left alone together . Give me your hand , Kate . I 'm off to Venice to buy outfits for the wedding . Plan the feast , sir , and invite the guests . I want my Katherine decked out in the finest clothes .
Worse and worse ! She will not come ! It 's vile , intolerable , not to be endured ! --You there , Grumio , go to your mistress . Say that I command her to come to me .
Enough , enough .
Well , he ca n't be completely crazy , or he would n't be able to beg . Last night during the storm I saw a man who was both poor and crazy . He made me think that men are as weak and insignificant as worms . I was reminded of my son , even though I despised my son at that time . Now I know better . The gods play around with us as cruelly as schoolboys who pull the wings off flies .
I recognize the handwriting . It 's beautiful handwriting . And the beautiful hand that wrote this letter is whiter than the paper it 's written on .
Master Death ! Master Bones !
So she 's made a vow to be a virgin forever ?
Go , knock on the gate and bid the abbess come out here and speak to me . I 'll settle this before I go
Then be so kind as to show them in .
It 's bad news when a country is ruled by a child .
Why , kinsman , I can teach you to command the devil .
Which gentlemen on each side have been killed ?
Struggling with the wind and rain . He 's shouting at the wind to blow the earth into the sea , or make the sea flood the earth -- he wants to see the world return to primal chaos . He keeps tearing out his white hair , which the blindly raging winds catch up and blow away into nothingness . Small but brave in his surroundings , he 's trying to stand up against the wind and rain blowing back and forth . He 's running bareheaded , calling for the end of the world , out there on a night like this , when even savage animals ravenous with hunger crawl under cover and hide .
Yes , making a big fuss . Your sister 's the better soldier of the two .
Did he speak so ambiguously that you could n't get a feeling for what he meant ?
It is that . And its tears are wet .
Pompey , could I have a word with you ?
I do n't know , madam . He 's a good-looking young man , and there are a lot of people with him .
Your highness , I want nothing more than what you 've already offered . I know you 'll offer nothing less than that .
With a hey , and a ho , and a hey - nonny - no The pretty country folk would lie In the springtime , the only proper wedding - time , The time when birds sing , Hey ding - a - ding - ding . Sweet lovers love the spring . They wrote this song at that time , With a hey , and a ho , and a hey - nonny - no , About how life was as short-lived as a flower In the springtime , the only proper wedding time , The time when birds sing , hey ding - a - ding - ding . Sweet lovers love the spring . So seize the present time , With a hey , and a ho , and a hey - nonny - no , For love is all perfection In the springtime , the only proper wedding time , The time when birds sing , Hey ding - a - ding - ding . Sweet lovers love the spring .
It was all about saving a few bucks , Horatio . The leftovers from the funeral dinner made a convenient wedding banquet . Oh , I 'd rather have met my fiercest enemy in heaven , Horatio , than have lived through that terrible day ! My father --I think I see my father .
being dead , or that raging rebel of a Scotsman would have ended me . Fake ? No , I tell a lie : I 'm not a faker . To die is to be a faker , because a dead body is an imitation of a living one . But to fake being dead , in order to stay alive , that 's no kind of faking . That 's the truest kind of living there is . Bravery is mostly about precaution ; I 'm careful , and it saved my life . Damn , I 'm scared of this bombshell Percy , even though he 's dead . What if he 's faking , too , and he gets up ? I swear , he 'd be the better faker . Therefore , I 'll make sure he 's dead ; in fact , I 'll swear that I killed him . Why could n't he just get up , like I did ? Only a witness could stop me , and there are no witnesses here . Therefore , sirrah , you 're coming with me -- complete with a new wound in your thigh .
No , but I hear he has two , the one as famous for her scolding tongue as the other is for her modesty and beauty .
Damn it , this is n't funny . Where 's the necklace ? Let me see it .
Be careful what you say -- the priest is here . Malvolio , Malvolio , may heaven make you sane again ! Try to sleep , and stop your pointless babbling .
Quiet there ! Let us hear him .
Paying debts is for peasants .
Let 's say I did n't kill them .
There he goes ! Now we can tell what time it is .
Is it time , my Lord Constable ?
Only describing what you have ruined . Or at least that 's what I plan to do before I let you go .
You 're " light on love " sure enough -- your frivolous dancing proves you have light heels ! When you 're married one of these days , if your husband is rolling in dough , you 'll let him roll in the hay whenever he wants .
Many men would take you literally and take off with all this money .
He 'll find out soon what happened in England .
Farewell .
About as long as it would take someone to count slowly to a hundred .
I really believe your cousin was falsely accused .
Did n't you talk to it ?
I will go find him . There is much to be learned from these converts . I bestow on you your former honor , for your patience and virtue . I give you the love that your faithfulness deserves and you your land , your love , and your great allies . You get a long and well-deserved stay in bed , with your new wife .
Do n't hold my skin color against me . I was born and raised in the sun , which is why I 'm dark - skinned . But I 'm as red-blooded as any man . Show me the best-looking person born in the freezing north , where the sun barely thaws the icicles . I 'll win your love by cutting myself to prove to you I have redder blood than he does . I 'm telling you , madam , my skin color has made brave men fear me and Moroccan girls love me . I would n't change it except to make you think of me , my darling queen .
Oh , what a fool I am !
Not even a block of wood could handle her abuses ! An oak tree barely clinging to life would have revived itself to fight her . Even my mask seemed to come to life in order to argue with her . She told me -- not realizing it was me -- that I was the Prince 's jester and as dull as mud . She hurled mocking insults at me with such incredible speed that all I could do was stand there , paralyzed . She speaks daggers , and every word stabs . If her breath were as terrible as her words , she would kill every living thing from here to the furthest star . I would n't marry her , even if she were as blessed as paradise . If she were married to the great hero Hercules , she would have humiliated him with chores around the house and ordered him to chop up his famous club for firewood . Please , do n't mention her . She 's as wicked as Ate , just disguised in pretty clothes . I wish to God that some wise man would conjure her away , because as long as she lives on earth , our lives are filled with turmoil . It 's quieter in hell , where people , sinning on purpose , are eager to be sent just to get away from her . So chaos , horror , and sorrow follow her wherever she goes .
Hail , Caesar ! Good morning , worthy Caesar . I 've come to take you to the senate house .
Good news , God willing .
Okay , but when ?
We ca n't go on with this plan . The king has just honored me , and I have earned the good opinion of all sorts of people . I want to enjoy these honors while the feeling is fresh and not throw them away so soon .
We 'll do our duty to you in that and everything else .
I 'm not tired , and night is a long time away . Come on , let 's go see the sights .
A herald ! Call a herald !
Oh , he 's acting just like Juliet , just like her . Oh painful sympathy ! What a pitiful problem ! She 's lying on the ground just like him , blubbering and weeping , weeping and blubbering . Stand up . Stand up . Stand up if you 're really a man . For Juliet 's sake , for her sake , rise and stand up . Why should you fall into so deep a moan ?
No , I want to see their trial first . Let 's have the evidence . Take your place , honorable judge . And you , his fellow justice of the peace , sit next to him . You can also be a judge . Sit down as well .
It 's good we had this meeting .
And I get sick when I ca n't look at you .
Oh Iago !
Well spoken ! What a splendid world ! Bring my breakfast , hostess ! I wish that I could lead my troops from here !
Oh , what an asinine thing this moron is !
Do n't you think you should go to bed , Malvolio ?
They should advance immediately , because I sense Octavius 's side is a bit fainthearted right now , and a sudden push would overthrow him . Ride , ride , Messala . Let Cassius 's wing mount a surprise attack .
Dammit ! I wish my face were in your belly .
What 's the matter ?
My master 's decision .
No , if they try to lead us to harm , I will leave the dance floor at the next song .
I 'll tell you this , Constable , my mistress has his own hair .
We all begged you not to go ahead with those marriage plans , and your lovely daughter struggled between disgust at marrying an African and the desire to obey you . Now I 'm afraid we 've lost your son forever . Our shipwreck has made more women widows in Milan and Naples than there are survivors to comfort them . And it 's all your fault .
And I can cut some meat to go with your capers .
He is .
Do you want to hear my news ?
Answer all of us , now .
You tell her , Kate !
Montano , you 're supposed to be calm and collected . You 're famous for it . Wise people respect you . What in the world made you risk your reputation like this and become a street brawler ? Tell me .
If I told them about this back in Naples , would they believe me ? I 'd tell them that I saw natives like these -- since they must be natives -- who are graceful and well-mannered even if they 're monstrous to look at , kinder than most human beings you might find -- kinder than almost any human .
You can have a whole story , not just a word .
Give me some trinket of yours , and I will wear it in my hat . Then , if you dare to acknowledge it , I 'll take up my quarrel with you .
Here come some more ingredients : the scale of a dragon , a wolf 's tooth , a witch 's mummified flesh , the gullet and stomach of a ravenous shark , a root of hemlock that was dug up in the dark , a Jew 's liver , a goat 's bile , some twigs of yew that were broken off during a lunar eclipse , a Turk 's nose , a Tartar 's lips , the finger of a baby that was strangled as a prostitute gave birth to it in a ditch . Make this potion thick and gluey . Now let 's add a tiger 's entrails to the mix .
Come on , shepherd , let 's make an honorable retreat , though not with all the trappings of a full army ; just with a shepherd 's pouch and the stuff he puts in it .
Well , the King has separated you and Prince Harry . I hear you 're going with John of Lancaster to go fight Northumberland and the Archbishop .
Come , shall we hunt some deer for dinner ? It bothers me , though , that these poor spotted innocents , who , after all , are this deserted city 's native citizens , should be gouged with arrows .
Really , he 's a total liar .
That goes without saying . I 'm amazed you 'd even ask such a foolish question .
I 'll be thrilled . You know , he got me in trouble with the lady of the house once when I arranged a bear-baiting here .
Then be still .
That 's my way , when I see a crab - apple .
Not at all , not at all .
I do n't know what to think about this . But what I do think is that nobody in his right mind would refuse to accept such a beautiful necklace when somebody offers it . I
I 'll follow you , my lord .
You have enough holy feeling to advise me to " make peace with God , " but you 're willing to go to war with God by murdering me ? Oh sirs , consider this : those who sent you to do this deed will hate you for doing it .
Locked in her tomb . She had a premonition of what has actually happened . She saw that you suspected her of negotiating a treaty with Caesar -- which never will be true . Afraid that your anger would not subside , she sent you word she was dead . But later , fearing how that news might affect you , she sent me to tell you the truth . I 'm afraid I 've come too late .
I 'm a man of gravy , gravy , gravy .
We are sure that you 'll soon enjoy both good health and the rebels ' defeat .
Good madam , let me speak .
March on , be brave in battle , and let 's go pell-mell to heaven , if not hand in hand to hell . What more can I say ? Remember who you 're dealing with -- a random bunch of bums , rascals , runaways , Breton scum , and peasant hangers-on whom an overcrowded nation vomits out to populate every desperate , sure - to - fail enterprise . You have been sleeping soundly , and they bring unrest . You own land they want to steal . Those of you who are blessed with beautiful wives , they want to defile them . And who 's leading them but an inconsequential fellow who for the longest time lived in Brittany at his mother 's expense ? A girly man , a man who never in his life felt more cold than seeps into one 's boots in the snow ? Let 's send these stragglers back over the sea . Let 's whip these arrogant relics of France - -these starving beggars , tired of their lives , who would have hanged themselves , poor rats , if it were n't for this foolish enterprise they 've been dreaming about -- back to France . If we 're going to be conquered , let men conquer us , and not these French bastards whom our forefathers already beat , thrashed , and pummeled on their own turf , and shamed them forever in the history books . Should these people enjoy our lands ? Sleep with our wives ? Rape our daughters ?
I ca n't help it . He makes me angry with all his talk . Moles and ants , Merlin and his prophecies , dragons , a fish with no fins , a griffin without wings , a raven without feathers , a crouching lion and a cat rearing up to pounce . He talks so much mumbo-jumbo that I do n't know what to believe anymore . I 'll tell you this : he kept me awake last night for at least nine hours , listing the names of all the devils that serve him . I said , " Hmm , " and , " How interesting , " but he did n't hear a word . Oh , he 's as tedious as a tired horse or a nagging wife ; he 's worse than a smoke-filled house .
Are you beautiful ?
Jove came to earth lowing for love . A strange bull just like him mated with one of your father 's cows and , voila , gave birth to a calf like you -- you bleat the same as him .
What good does it do to respond to catastrophe with a lot of words ?
Lord Rivers and Lord Grey have been imprisoned in Pomfret . So has Sir Thomas Vaughan .
Right .
There go the minstrels . They 've started up .
Come on , confess . Did n't you send Lysander , as an insult , to follow me around praising my eyes and my face ? Have n't you made your other love , Demetrius -- who kicked me with his foot not long ago -- call me a goddess and a divine , rare , precious , heavenly creature ? Why does he talk like that to a girl he ca n't stand ? And why does Lysander deny that he loves you , when he loves you so deeply ? Why would he show me any affection , unless you told him to ? Why does it matter that I 'm not as lucky or lovable as you are and that the love I feel is unrequited ? You should pity me for that reason , not hate me .
We should all have wives like that . Then the women could go to war with the men .
Yes , truthfully , sir .
Ha ! " Against my will , I 've been told to bring you in to dinner . " There 's a double meaning in that . " I did n't take any more pains bringing this message than you took pains in thanking me . " That 's like saying , " Any thing I do for you is as easy as saying ' thank you . ' " If this does n't move me to take pity on her , I 'm a horrible person . If I do n't love her , I 'm completely hard - hearted . I will go get her picture .
I know you know something about how excellent Laertes is --
I 'd rather have a handful or two of dried peas . But please do n't let any of your people wake me up . I really want to sleep now .
That makes no sense , Fool . It 's nothing .
How did you sleep , my lord ?
Tell him a messenger has arrived from my master with good news . My master will be here in the morning .
Leonato , am I standing here ? Is this the Prince ? Is this the Prince 's brother ? Is this face Hero 's ? Are these our eyes ?
What do you think I 've got on my head ? You 're acting like an ass , do n't you think ?
The new challenge scared them about as much as sparrows frighten eagles , or rabbits frighten a lion . To tell you the truth , they fought the new enemy with twice as much force as before ; they were like cannons loaded with double ammunition . Maybe they wanted to take a bath in their enemies ' blood , or make that battlefield as infamous as Golgotha , where Christ was crucified , I do n't know . But I feel weak . My wounds must be tended to .
I 'd endure it until he came home again .
What is it ? A spirit ? Lord , it 's glancing every which way ! How handsome it is . It must be a spirit .
That 's not the tune I had in mind .
You good - for - nothing , let me in .
The house will be so much quieter .
I hope all the diseases that breed in swamps and marshes infect Prospero , inch by inch , until he 's nothing but a walking disease ! His spirits are listening to me , but I ca n't help cursing him anyway . They wo n't pinch me , frighten me , push me in the mud , or mislead me unless he tells them to . But he sends them to punish me for every little thing . Sometimes his spirits take the form of apes , grimacing and chattering at me and then biting me ; sometimes they come like porcupines , my feet as I walk . Sometimes snakes wrap around me , hissing at me with their forked tongues till I go crazy .
Follow him , Buckingham . He 's traveling at a gallop to the London meeting hall . There , as soon as you have a chance , drop the hint that Edward 's children are bastards . Tell the citizens how Edward put to death a citizen just because the citizen said he was going to make his own son " heir to the crown " -- when all the citizen meant was that he owned a tavern called " the Crown " and was going to leave it to his son . And then point out what a lech Edward was and what a bestial appetite he had for women , which touched even the citizens ' own servants , daughters , and wives . There was no limit to what his lustful eye and savage heart would prey on . And , if you need to , approach the subject of me : tell them that when my mother became pregnant with the insatiable Edward , my noble father was fighting in France . With a little calculating , it 's obvious that Edward is not in fact my father 's child -- not a surprising revelation if you consider how my father the noble duke looked nothing like this man . But only hint at this vaguely , because , as you know , my mother 's still alive .
Well that 's good . If we 're fattened up , we 'll be worth more . Hello , Monsieur Le Beau . What 's the news ?
No , of course you do n't . It lies in the future , along with certainty . Now there can only be the promise . Do promise , Kate , that you 'll do your French part to bring forth such a boy ; and for my English half , take the word of a king and a bachelor . What 's your answer , oh loveliest of Katherines , my most precious and divine goddess ?
God help me !
I think that 's exactly right -- that explains why the ghost of the late king would haunt us now , since he caused these wars .
While we were here guarding you as you slept , we heard a loud roar that sounded like bulls , or lions . Did n't you hear it ? We heard it very clearly .
Hey , chamberlain !
Ding - dong .
But wait a minute , please . Did you say Caesar fainted ?
Caesar !
Madam , the guests are here , dinner is served , people are calling for you , people have asked for Juliet , and in the pantry , people are cursing the Nurse . Everything 's out of control . I must go and serve the guests . Please , follow straight after me .
Lord , may I never see a day of trouble until the day I let someone treat me like that .
Quiet , shut up ! It 's come again .
Please , my lord . I need to speak with you . Oh , my good lord !
It wo n't be long before I reward each of you as he deserves . My thanes and kinsmen , I name you all earls , the first earls that Scotland has ever had . We have a lot to do at the dawn of this new era . We must call home all of our exiled friends who fled from the grip of Macbeth 's tyranny , and we must bring to justice all the evil ministers of this dead butcher and his demon - like queen , who , rumor has it , committed suicide . This , and whatever else we are called to do by God , we will do at the right time and in the right place . So I thank you all , and I invite each and every one of you to come watch me be crowned king of Scotland at Scone .
So I will , my liege . I swear on my life .
Richard Earl of Cambridge , I arrest you for high treason . Henry Lord Scroop of Masham , I arrest you for high treason . Thomas Grey , knight , of Northumberland , I arrest you for high treason .
I know a lot about the love women can feel for men . Actually , their hearts are as sensitive and loyal as ours are . My father had a daughter who loved a man in the same way that I might love you , if I were a woman .
I do n't know where he 's staying , so if I told you he 's sleeping here or there , I 'd be lying .
Margaret .
I 'll have to cry to make my performance believable . And as soon as I start crying , oh boy , the audience had better watch out , because they 'll start crying too . I 'll make tears pour out of their eyes like rainstorms . I 'll moan very believably . --Name the other actors . --But I 'm really in the mood to play a tyrant . I could do a great job with Hercules , or any other part that requires ranting and raving . I would rant and rave really well . Like this , listen . The raging rocks nd shivering shocks Will break the locks Of prison gates . And the sun - god 's car Will shine from far Away , and make and mar Foolish fate . Oh , that was truly inspired ! --Now tell us who the other actors are . --By the way , my performance just now was in the style of Hercules , the tyrant style . A lover would have to be weepier , of course .
Thank you . What do you want with me ?
Yes , yes , we 've been exhibitioned to examine this case .
Bring the bodies here , whether they 're alive or dead . We tremble at the gods ' wrath , but we do n't mourn these deaths .
Too many family ties there for me .
Oh my God , here she comes ! Oh sweet Nurse , what news do you bring ? Have you spoken to him ? Send your man away .
Oh , will you leave me alone in the dark ? Do n't .
Oh , my liege , my wife died tonight . Sadness over my son 's exile stopped her breath . What further pain must I endure in my old age ?
Well , let 's watch it . Come , madam wife , sit here beside me . Let 's forget our cares . We 're not getting any younger .
Hear , hear .
Here it is , then . It 's not seemly for me to be sad over my father 's illness . But I could tell you -- as a person who , for lack of anyone else , I 'm pleased to call my friend -- that I could be sad . I could be very sad , indeed .
If you sink , you 're dragging love down . It 's not right to drag down something as tender as love .
Oh , what an excellent thing this learning is !
As faithful as flies in rotting meat , which give birth to maggots every time the wind blows . You 're like a weed pretending to be a flower , so beautiful and sweet-smelling that I ache when I look at you . Oh , I wish you 'd never been born !
No , monster , not me .
Oh , my good Lord Mowbray , if you think about what is necessary in times of war , you 'll see that it is the situation
They 're speaking to him . Go up there and second his petition .
" If this letter falls into your hands , think carefully about what it says . By my birth I rank above you , but do n't be afraid of my greatness . Some are born great , some achieve greatness , and some have greatness thrust upon them . Your fate awaits you . Accept it in body and spirit . To get used to the life you 'll most likely be leading soon , get rid of your low-class trappings . Show some eagerness for the new upscale lifestyle that 's waiting
Thank you , sir . I did n't intend to come see you . But I ran into Salerio on the way , and he begged me to come along with him until I could n't say no .
No ? Then why did you have to stick it in your pocket in such a hurry ? If it were nothing , you would n't need to hide it . Let 's see it . Come on , if it 's nothing , I wo n't need glasses to read it .
Because everyone knows that you are the man closest to this throne , and I love you just as much as any father loves his son . And your plans for going back to Wittenberg are not what I want . I 'm asking you now to stay here in my company as the number-one member of my court , my nephew and now my son too .
They wo n't have moles , or harelips , or scars , or abnormal markings , or anything else that might alarm someone if their baby was born with it . Use this blessed dew from the fields to bless each room in the palace with sweet peace . And the blessed owner will always be safe . Run along . Do n't stay long . Meet me at dawn .
I ca n't believe there could be enough vice in the world to outshine all the good in him . His faults stand out because they must be compared to all his virtues , like stars that shine brightly against the dark night sky . They 're more likely to be the result of inherited weakness than independent choice .
I ca n't decide whether Pyramus or Thisbe is better . God help us if he 's a better man . But God help us if she 's a better woman .
They 're looking for you in the great chamber .
Like the overflowing Nile predicts famine .
Whatever seems best to you . If I can give you some advice , if I were you , I would stay in the Tower for a day or two . Then you can stay wherever best suits your health and entertainment needs .
Did you call for me , your Worship ?
How does he love me ?
By St. Paul , ghosts have struck more terror in my soul tonight than ten thousand of worthless Richmond 's soldiers could , dressed up in their most sword - proof armor . It 's not yet daylight . Come with me ; I 'll spy under the tents to see if any of my own people plan to desert me .
It 's better that you did n't kill him .
Damn him ! How did he get such an idea ?
You lying brat . It 's Hortensio , is n't it ?
Yes , do you hear me , Balthasar ? Please , get some excellent music , because tomorrow we want to serenade Lady Hero at her bedroom window .
Yes -- as you and the rest will find out as soon as he 's home . But why am I telling you this ? Get them in here --Nathaniel , Joseph , Nicholas , Philip , Walter , Sugarsop , and the rest . Tell them to slick down their hair , brush their blue coats , and make sure their socks match . Have them click their heels together and do n't dare touch a hair of the master 's horse 's tail till they kiss their hands . Are they all ready ?
Gentlemen , please leave ; the Prince of Wales and I must speak in private . But stay close by , for I 'll need you in a moment .
Sailors , my lord , or so they say . I did n't see them . Claudio gave them to me , and he got them from the one who delivered them .
It is , sir .
Are you really as in love as your poems declare ?
Extremely sick .
Mistress , your father requests that you leave your books and come help decorate your sister 's room . You know tomorrow is her wedding day .
I have more news : as I passed through the town of Worcester , I heard that Glendower wo n't be able to collect his army for two more weeks .
That 's more than we know .
Please , Gremio ! Everyone knows that my father has no less than three , huge merchant ships and fourteen galleys -- two large and twelve small . These also I promise to Bianca -- and whatever your next offer is , I 'll double it .
Listen ! Who 's sleeping in the second chamber ?
Yes , absolutely , no question or ambiguity about it .
Did n't you call him a liar ?
Oh , Cassius , Brutus gave the orders too soon . Having an advantage over Octavius , he took it too eagerly , and his soldiers began looting , and now we 're surrounded by Antony 's men .
Was he sad or happy ?
Well said , good woman 's tailor ! Well said , courageous Feeble ! You 'll be as brave as the angriest dove or the most valiant mouse . Prick the woman 's tailor . A big one , Master Shallow ; a deep one , Master Shallow .
Yes , if that would be all right with your Lordship .
Please wait a day or two before making your choice . If you choose wrong , I 'll lose your company . So wait a while . Something tells me -- not love , but something -- that I do n't want to lose you , and you know that if I hated you I would n't think that . But let me put it more clearly in case you do n't understand -- though I know girls are n't supposed to express their thoughts --I 'm just saying I 'd like you to stay here for a month or two before you undergo the test for me . I could tell you how to choose correctly , but then I 'd be disregarding the oath I took . So I 'll never tell . But you might lose me by making the wrong choice . If you do choose wrong , you 'll make me wish for something very bad . I 'd wish I had ignored my oath and told you everything . God , your eyes have bewitched me . They 've divided me in two . One half of me is yours , and the other half -- my own half , I 'd call it -- belongs to you too . If it 's mine , then it 's yours , and so I 'm all yours . But in this awful day and age people do n't even have the right to their own property ! So though I 'm yours , I 'm not yours . If there 's no chance for me to be yours , then it 's just bad luck . I know I 'm talking too much , but I do that just to make the time last longer , and to postpone your test .
Pillicock sat on Pillicock hill . La , la , la , la !
He 's insane . Let 's leave him . Let 's move .
Please , listen to me .
I 'll hang on every word you say . Put your hat back on , where it belongs : it 's for your head , not for your hands to hold .
Give them the swords , Osric . Hamlet , you know the bet ?
The things you say scare me ! Your eyes look threatening . And why are you so pale ? Who sent you here ? Why are you here ?
Watch him closely . I 'll stare at him too , and afterward we 'll compare notes on him .
Welcome , Horatio . Welcome , Marcellus .
Indeed you did , and more besides , Miranda . But how is it possible that you still remember this , through all the darkness of the past ? If you remember your life before you came here , you may also remember how you got here .
You know I 'm powerful enough to make you pay for this .
Not with any sauce they could provide for them . I swear , I love you .
It is , my lord .
I will , my lord .
Get out of here ! What kind of man are you ?
No. You will .
Madam , those are two character flaws that a little booze and some common sense can fix . If you hand a drink to a sober fool , he wo n't be thirsty anymore . If you tell a bad man to mend his wicked ways , and he does , he wo n't be bad anymore . If he cannot , let the tailor mend him . Anything that 's mended is only patched up . A good person who does something wrong is only patched up with sin . And a sinner who does something good is only patched up with goodness . If this logic works , that 's great . If not , what can you do about it ? Since the only real betrayed husband in the world is the one deserted by Lady Luck -- because we 're all married to her -- beauty is a flower . The lady gave orders to take away the fool , so I 'm telling you again , take her away .
Get me some wine . Get a soldier to stand watch outside my tent . Saddle my white horse Surrey for battle tomorrow . Make sure the shafts of my lances are solid , but not too heavy . Ratcliffe !
Either here or at the Capitol .
Octavius , I 'm older than you are . And although we 're giving these honors to this man so that he shares some of the blame for what we 're doing , he 'll carry these honors like a jackass carries gold -- groaning and sweating under the load , either led or pushed , as we direct him . Once he 's carried our treasure where we want it , we 'll free him of the load and turn him loose like a jackass , to shake his ears and graze in the public pastures .
If you 're calling me Jephthah , my lord , I do have a daughter I love more than anything , yes .
I 'm saying it to the girl who is n't here and does n't hear me .
What , you 're leaving it with Lysander ?
But could beauty be related to anything better than goodness ?
I 'll buy you both breakfast if it will make you two friends . Then we can all three be comrades on our way to France . How about it , Corporal Nym ?
Not by the likes of you !
I hope you find peace and happiness , my lady .
Well , I 'm glad that everything has been sorted out .
Sir , we were saying that our clothes seem just as fresh as they did when we attended the wedding of your daughter , who 's now queen of Tunis .
And look how willingly he 's taking the bait .
You too . Good night . Good night .
A proper lady , sir , and my master 's relative .
Well , good - bye , Portia . We all must die , Messala . Having already thought about the fact that she would have to die sometime , I can endure her death now .
I knew you 'd come up with a bald conclusion . But wait -- who 's that waving to us ?
They blessed him and adored him even more than the King . But I digress . I was sent here by our general , the Prince , to hear your grievances , and to tell you that he 's prepared to listen to you . If it appears that your demands are legitimate , he 'll give you what you want -- except for those things which might suggest that you 're his enemies .
Meet me down at the harbor . --Come here . They say love makes cowards brave . So if you 're brave , listen to me . Lieutenant Cassio will be on guard duty tonight . But first , I have to tell you that Desdemona 's completely in love with him .
He told me to tell you to prepare to die , for this soldier here is of a mind to cut your throat without delay .
Why , you 're not even wearing a hat ? My lord , there 's a hut nearby . It will give you some protection from this storm . Rest there while I go back to the unfriendly house where your sisters are staying , and ask them for help . They are harder than the stones the house is made of . Just now , when I asked them if they knew where you were , they would n't let me in . But I 'll go back and force them to be polite .
Would your highness like to take a walk ?
I must wait for him to finish his tirade .
Stay here , Titinius . We have to go out and talk to them .
Davy !
Oh , my poor Rosalind , where will you go ? Do you want to exchange fathers ? I 'll give you mine . I insist , do n't be more distressed than I am .
I swear by that moon over there that you 're doing me wrong ! I 'm telling the truth ! I gave it to the judge 's clerk . I wish the guy I gave it to had been castrated , since you 're getting so upset about it .
The most beautiful queen they ever had .
My name is Harry Percy .
The woman 's falling down ! He 's killed his wife !
Give him your hand to read .
Now my sin has been taken from my lips by yours .
He 's the best actor I 've ever seen play a lion .
The leaders have orders from you to stand fast , and they wo n't disperse until they hear you give the order .
Let 's suppose that everything we 're hoping for fails to materialize , and the army we have now is as big as it 's going to get . I still think that , even in this condition , we 're a match for the King .
And he told us to follow him to the temple .
You have to be patient , madam .
I 'll follow the priest and go with you ; and after I 've sworn to be faithful , I 'll be faithful forever .
Go to him , madam , speak to him . He 's not himself because he feels so ashamed .
My good lord , I was n't forced to travel like this . It was my choice . Mark Antony heard that you were preparing to wage war on him . When he gave me this news , I begged him to let me visit you .
Her father loved me and used to invite me to his house often , continually asking me about my life and all the battles I 've fought . I told him everything , from my boyhood up until the time when I was talking to him . I told him about unfortunate disasters , hair-raising adventures on sea and on land , and near - catastrophes and dangerous adventures I 've been through . I told him how I was captured and sold as a slave , how I bought my freedom , and how I wandered through caves and deserts . I was able to tell him about cannibals who eat each other , and men with heads growing below their shoulders . When I talked about all these things , Desdemona used to listen attentively . If she had to go do some household chore , I noticed that she 'd always come back quickly to hear more of my stories .
I hope so , but still I 'm afraid . Now hurry , Sir Michael , to prevent an absolute disaster . For if Percy does n't prevail , the King will come after us before he disbands his army . He 's heard that we 're part of the rebellion , so we 'd be wise to prepare against him . Now hurry . I have to go write to more friends . Farewell , Sir Michael .
Here .
We 'll probably witness many more outbursts from him , like banishing Kent .
My friend Antonio , all I can say is thank you . I know words are cheap . If I had any money I 'd back up my gratitude with cash . Anyway , what should we do ? Should we go see the sights in the town ?
Oh , my crime is so rotten it stinks all the way to heaven . It has the mark of Cain on it , a brother 's murder . I ca n't pray , though I want to desperately . My guilt is stronger even than my intentions . And like a person with two opposite things to do at once , I stand paralyzed and neglect them both . So what if this cursed hand of mine is coated with my brother 's blood ? Is n't there enough rain in heaven to wash it clean as snow ? Is n't that what God 's mercy is for ? And does n't prayer serve these two purposes -- to keep us from sinning and to bring us forgiveness when we have sinned ? So I 'll pray . I 've already committed my sin . But , oh , what kind of prayer is there for me ? " Dear Lord , forgive me for my horrible murder " ?
Come , last of my friends , rest on this rock .
I know you are loyal and honorable .
Yes , it 's well built , and the ship 's pilot is very expert and experienced . For that reason I still have some hope for him , even though I do n't have my hopes up too high .
" Thinking , my lord ? " My God , you keep repeating everything I say as if you were thinking something too horrible to say out loud . You 're thinking something . Just a minute ago I heard you say you did n't like it when Cassio left my wife . What did n't you like ? And when I told you he was involved the whole time I was trying to get Desdemona , you were like , " Oh , really ? " And then you frowned and wrinkled up your forehead as if you were imagining something horrible . If you 're my friend , tell me what you 're thinking .
Yes , as much as you look like yourself . The king was wearing exactly this armor when he fought the king of Norway . And the ghost frowned just like the king did once when he attacked the Poles , traveling on the ice in sleds . It 's weird .
Well , we can put away our pipes and go home .
Mouldy and Bullcalf . Mouldy , you stay home till you 're too old to fight . And as for you , Bullcalf , wait till you 've reached fighting age . I do n't want either of you .
That 's the one . I tell you , there are good men born at Monmouth .
If you say that , you 'll only be telling the truth .
Was he pale or flushed and red - faced ?
With patience , noble lord , as prisoners must . But I will live to thank those who sent me there .
Norfolk , we 're going to have a few blows , right ?
Sir , I 'm half - blind . I do n't know you .
You 're going to have to , if you stay here . This is the place they 're scheduled to wrestle , and they 're ready to go .
I do n't know what you 're talking about .
Stop right now !
They are the best actors in the world , either for tragedy , comedy , history , pastoral , pastoral - comical , historical - pastoral , tragical - historical , tragical - comical - historical , one-act plays , or long poemsShakespeare is making fun of the way his contemporaries classified drama.tragedy , comedy , history , pastoral , pastoral - comical , historical - pastoral , tragical - historical , tragical - comical - historical , one-act plays , or long poems . The tragic playwright Seneca is not too heavy for them to handle nor is the comic writer Plautus too light . For formal plays or freer dramas , these are the best actors around .
Antonio , you 're under arrest on the orders of Count Orsino .
And what feelings did you see in his face today ?
Get up , liar . Though I wish you were dead , I 'm not going to be the one to kill you .
You were a cold crumb on dead Julius Caesar 's plate when I met you . No , you were one of Gneius Pompey 's leftovers -- not to mention your other , more depraved affairs , which have somehow managed to avoid becoming the subject of vulgar gossip . For I 'm sure that although you may know what temperance is , you 've never experienced it firsthand .
Do you doubt I 'll write ?
He did n't have any .
From now on I will , cousin , and I 'll think of all kinds of games for us . Let me see -- what do you think about falling in love ?
That villain , Romeo .
I wo n't say anything else about her until you two see things for yourselves . Remain calm until midnight , and then you 'll see what the trouble is .
Madam , he 's well .
Give me your hand . I 'm starting to feel murderous urges .
But do you mean what you 're saying ?
How long will a man lie in his grave before he starts to rot ?
Hey , what 's this , what 's going on ? Wake up !
And mine say two hundred . But often in these cases , reports are just estimates . The important thing is that they all say a Turkish fleet is approaching Cyprus .
Come with us , Lepidus .
What 's his name ?
How can you tell the difference Between your true lover and some other ? Your true one wears a pilgrim 's hat And a pilgrim 's sandals and staff .
I 'll do it with all my heart . I 'm happy to see you 've come to repent for what you 've done . Tressel and Berkeley , come with me .
Despised , distressed , hated , martyred , killed ! Why did this have to happen now ? Why did Death have to ruin our wedding ? Oh child ! Oh child ! My soul and not my child ! You are dead ! Oh no ! My child is dead . My child will be buried , and so will my joys .
So be happy , kinsman . A sudden feeling of melancholy is just a sign that says , " Something good is coming tomorrow . "
I 'm not going to surrender and have to kiss the ground in front of Malcolm , or be taunted by the common people . Even though Birnam Wood really did come to Dunsinane , and I 'm fighting a man not of woman born , I 'll fight to the end . I 'll put up my shield and battle you . Come on , let 's go at it , Macduff , and damn the first man who cries , ' Stop ! Enough ! '
Sir , you 're old . Your life is stretched to its limit . You should let others take care of you and submit to people who know better than you do what 's good for you . Please go back to Goneril 's house . Admit you were wrong .
You said it right , old mole . You 're pretty busy down there in the dirt , are n't you ? What a tunneler ! Let 's move again , my friends .
Come on , take control of your feelings .
Be patient with him , Brutus . That 's just how he is .
To work as a servant .
That 's what I said , my lord . And I said I 'd heard you say so , and then he said awful things about you , like the foul-mouthed man that he is . He said he 'd beat you .
Oh , Antony , do n't beg us to kill you . Though we seem bloody and cruel right now , with our bloody hands and this deed we 've done , you 've only seen our hands and their bloody business ; you have n't looked into our hearts . They are full of pity for Caesar . But a stronger pity , for the wrongs committed against Rome , drove out our pity for Caesar , as fire drives out fire , and so we killed him . For you , our swords have blunt edges , too dull to harm you , Mark Antony . Our arms , which can be strong and cruel , and our hearts , filled with brotherly love , embrace you with kind love , good thoughts , and reverence .
God 's own voice : the interpreter and ambassador between God 's heavenly ways and our own dull , mortal actions . And now , who would say anything but that you are abusing the holiness of your position , using the outward show of godliness to do terrible things , like a treacherous courtier uses the King 's good name ? You have pretended to be acting in God 's name as you encourage the subjects of God 's deputy , my father , to rise up against the peace of both heaven and the King .
In that case there are a lot of animals on the loose in this city .
I 'm sorry , madam , but I ca n't do that yet . If people recognize me now , I wo n't be able to carry out my plans . I have to ask you , as a favor , not to let on that you recognize me until the time is right .
That he was never trained as a soldier .
Meanwhile , I 'll think of some horrible way to phrase the challenge .
Did you try tempting him with some entertainment ?
Heaven help me , I do n't know you , sir . But please tell me , is my boy --God rest his soul -- alive or dead ?
If they make any headway against the King , then join them , and like a steel rod make their strength even stronger . But in the name of the love you feel for us , let them begin on their own . That 's how your son fought . You allowed him to do that , and that 's how I became a widow . If I spend the rest of my life pouring tears on
Go on .
I 've never seen him like this . He 's never been as angry and upset as he is now .
I 'm sorry , sir , but I 'm not any of those things .
What 's the problem now ?
urges are dead . I want this because she wants it --I love her for her mind . And I 'd never want you to think that I 'd neglect my serious official duties while she was there with me . If I ever let love blind me so that I choose to lounge around in bed with my loved one instead of going off to war , then you can let a housewife use my helmet as a frying pan . My reputation would be disgraced if I ever acted like that .
Not that I suspect you did n't love your father , but I 've seen it happen that , as the days go by , time dampens the flame of love . The fire of love always burns itself out , and nothing stays the way it began . Even a good thing can grow too big and die from its own excess . We should do what we intend to do right when we intend it , since our intentions are subject to as many weakenings and delays as there are words in the dictionary and accidents in life . And then all our " woulds " and " shoulds " are nothing but hot air . But back to my point : Hamlet 's coming back . What proof will you offer -- in action , not just words -- that you 're your father 's son ?
One servant cried , " God bless us ! " and the other replied , " Amen , " as if they had seen my bloody hands . Listening to their frightened voices , I could n't reply " Amen " when they said " God bless us ! "
How did he try to persuade you to love him ?
But sir , he 's crazy .
Please , send for Desdemona to come here from the Sagittarius Inn and ask her to speak about me in front
But did you see them dead ?
I wish you had my bones , and I had your news . Come on now , I beg you , speak , good Nurse , speak .
I know you two are enemies . Has the world really become so gentle and peaceful that people who hate each other have started to trust each other and sleep beside each other without being afraid ?
They 'll be married tomorrow , and I 'll invite the duke to the ceremony . But , oh , it makes me bitter to look at happiness through another man 's eyes . Tomorrow I 'll be at the depths of my misery thinking about the happiness my brother has achieved , in having what he wished for .
Yessir , in a two-quart glass .
Well , this is what happens when men let themselves be ruled by women . The king is n't the one sending you to the Tower , Clarence . It 's his wife , Lady Grey , who got him to do this . Remember how she and her brother , Anthony Woodeville , made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower ? Hastings was just released . We 're not safe , Clarence , we 're not safe .
And a bad singer , my lord .
Here comes your father . Tell him so yourself , and see how he takes the news .
It is for your ears only .
I played Julius Caesar . I was killed in the Capitol . Brutus killed me .
Quiet , man , quiet . Step aside . Do n't you know where you are ? Now the next , Sir John . Let 's see . Simon Shadow !
Yes , just like this . But enough talk . It 's me she 's marrying and not my clothes . Though I expect she 'll wear me out more quickly than I 'll wear out what I 'm wearing -- which will be good for her and even better for me ! But what a fool I am to stand here chatting when I should bid good morning to my bride and seal the bargain with a loving kiss .
Does anyone know if Donalbain is with his brother ?
Oh , honey ! Listen , in books they say that true love always faces obstacles . Either the lovers have different social standings --
How are you , sir ? Please do n't stand there in a daze . Would n't you like to lie down on the pillows ?
You mean the man who used to be Othello ? Here I am .
Ensign , what 's he doing in there ?
honor of our land , let us not hang like ropes of icicles off the thatched roofs of our houses while men of a more frosty temperament sweat off their own gallant youth in our rich fields ! Our fields may be rich , but they are ruled poorly .
No more than my staying here in Rome might mean to you in Egypt . But if you conspired against my position while you were there , I might be interested in the reason for your stay in Egypt .
Does n't he look like the king , Horatio ?
Speak , Claudio , that 's your cue .
Yes , sir .
Heaven help her ! --Get him out of here for now .
Give me a little breathing space , my lord , a little pause to think . I 'll let you know my answer shortly .
Good evening , my spiritual confessor .
No more , please . These are ugly antics . Go back to my sister 's .
I 've been singing ever since you made your daughters into your mothers by giving them all your power . That 's when you gave them the spanking paddle and pulled your pants down , Then your daughters wept for joy , And I sang in sadness , Seeing such a king become A child and a fool . Please , uncle , hire a teacher who can teach your fool to lie . I want to learn how to lie .
Was he frowning ?
Nothing but some papers , my lord .
A man named Iago , the general 's ensign .
We 're not your suitors , that 's for sure ! Not until you improve your temper , girl !
Ha ! Am I king ? I guess I am . But Edward is still alive .
No , you must see them as your father sees them .
Halt !
I 've locked up Clarence 's son and matched his daughter with a poor fellow . Edward 's sons have been carried off by the angels and Anne , my wife , has bid good night to the world . Now I go , a jolly , thriving wooer , to marry my brother Edward 's young daughter , Elizabeth , because I know Richmond has his eye on her . He wants to win the crown by way of marrying her .
If you make us sing , you 'll hear us .
That 's well spoken .
I do n't like his face .
They are .
We 're very sorry , sir , that you may not live to wear us out with your commands .
Quiet ! Stop chattering until I 've made everything clear . There are eight people here that I will join in marriage , if the truth you see before you pleases you . No hardship can part you . Your hearts are together . You must consent to having Silvius as your husband , unless you 'd rather be married to a woman . You are bound to each other as closely as winter is to bad weather . While we sing a wedding hymn , satisfy your curiosity with questioning . Your surprise will fade , and you 'll learn how all this came to be .
He 's a knight . He was made a knight because of his court connections , but when he 's fighting a civilian he 's a real monster . He 's killed three people , and he 's so furious right now that the only thing that will satisfy him is seeing you die . " Fight to the death " is his motto .
Ophelia , come here . -- Your Majesty , we will hide . --Read from this prayer book , so it looks natural that you 're all alone . Come to think of it , this happens all the time -- people act devoted to God to mask their bad deeds .
Where is he , for God 's sake ? I do n't care if all the devils in hell crammed together to possess him , I still want to speak to him .
Good afternoon , good gentleman .
This is Illyria , lady .
Yes , sir , I told her . But she wo n't agree . She says thank you but refuses . I wish the fool were dead and married to her grave !
No , our general 's infatuation is out of control . His eyes used to glow with pride when he reviewed his troops . Now his eyes devote themselves exclusively to a certain brown-skinned face . His heart used to burst the buckles on his breastplate in great fights , but now he 's lost all temperance and dedicates his heart to satisfying the lust of an Egyptian whore .
That 's too long . --Servants , leave her and me alone . Now , madam , undress and come to bed .
Then music with her silver sound makes you feel just fine .
Give me one good reason to think she 's cheating on me .
She says this as she begins to write the letter . She 'll be getting up twenty times in a night , sitting there in her slip until she 's written a page . My daughter told me everything .
That island of England breeds very valiant creatures . Their hounds are unequaled in courage .
You 're Lear 's shadow .
Now pile the dirt onto the living and the dead alike , till you 've made a mountain higher thanMount Pelion or Mount Olympus .
Good morning to my sovereign king and queen . Noble peers , how nice to see you .
Not for Cadwallader and all his goats .
Stop , sir , for God 's sake ! Now this joke has turned serious . Why are you doing this ?
Where is she ?
The nasty devil 's biting my butt .
Where should we stable our horses ?
No , actually , sir , he should n't say anything . It 's not his turn , it 's Thisbe 's . " Disappointing me like this " is Thisbe 's cue . She 's supposed to enter now , and I 'll see her through the wall . You 'll see , it 'll happen exactly like I say . Here she comes .
Oh , Lord , I forgot ! " D' elbow . " What is the word for le col ?
You could just as easily say that a king sleeps near a beggar if the beggar lives near him , or that the church is supported by your drum because it " stands by " your drum .
Calm down , Kate . Please do n't be angry .
I assure you , sir , there 's nothing to be afraid of . When we were boys , who 'd believe that there were mountain people with rolls of skin around their necks , with their throats hanging down ? Or that there were men with heads in their chests?- -Nowadays travelers commonly report that these things exist .
Thinking , my lord ?
My dear Hamlet , stop wearing these black clothes , and be friendly to the king . You ca n't spend your whole life with your eyes to the ground remembering your noble father . It happens all the time , what lives must die eventually , passing to eternity .
You 've had too much water already , poor Ophelia , so I wo n't shed watery tears for you . But crying is what humans do . We do what 's in our nature , even if we 're ashamed of it . After I stop crying I 'll be through acting like a woman . Good - bye , my lord . I have some fiery words I could speak now , but my foolish tears are drowning them out .
Nurse ?
God , I wish I could forget about the handkerchief ! What you told me it haunts me like a nightmare -- he 's got my handkerchief !
I swear I will never break this promise of love .
Ladies and gentlemen , perhaps you are wondering what is going on . Well , keep wondering , until the truth makes everything clear . This man is Pyramus , if you want to know . This beautiful lady is definitely Thisbe . This man with the limestone and cement is portraying Wall , that horrible wall that kept these lovers apart . They are content to whisper through Wall 's little hole , the poor souls , and no one should be surprised . This man , with his lantern , dog , and thornbush , portrays Moonshine , because , if you want to know , the lovers were not ashamed to meet each other by moonshine at Ninus 's tomb in order to carry on their courtship . This grisly beast , which is called " Lion , " scared away , or rather frightened , the faithful Thisbe when she arrived at the meeting place at night . As she ran away from him , she dropped her cloak , which the horrible Lion stained with his bloody mouth . Soon Pyramus comes along , a tall and handsome young man , and finds his faithful Thisbe 's cloak to be dead . At this point , he takes his sword , his bloody blameful blade , and bravely breaks open his boiling bloody breast . And Thisbe , hiding in the shade of the mulberry bushes , took his dagger and killed herself . For the rest of the story , let Lion , Moonshine , Wall , and the two lovers talk more about it , since they 're standing here .
Will I be with you then ?
Caesar and Lepidus are organizing their military operation . They have a massive army .
The actors have arrived , my lord .
Who should hang them ?
That music must be divine , because their souls have been captivated . Is n't it strange that strings made of sheep 's guts are capable of drawing men 's souls out of their bodies ? Well , I 'd rather listen to a plain old hunting horn than this music , when all is said and done .
In private ?
Oh , monster , we know secondhand clothes when we see them . -- Oh , King Stephano !
My lord , your son has paid the soldier 's price : death . He only lived long enough to become a man , and as soon as he proved that he was a man by fighting like one , he died .
And you , dear king of England , if you care about me at all -- and you should , since you can still feel the damage that Denmark has done to you in the past and , so , fear and respect us -- then you wo n't ignore my letters instructing you to kill Hamlet immediately . Do it ,
My lord , Osric has told the king about your agreeing to the fencing match . The king wishes to know if you want to play against him right away , or wait awhile .
I forgot about them . Do n't be alarmed on my account , my most worthy friends . I have a strange disorder , which no longer shocks those who know me well . Come , let 's drink a toast : love and health to you all . Now I 'll sit down . Give me some wine . Fill up my cup .
What stunning , exquisite , and unmatchable beauty -- but please , tell me if you 're the lady of the house , because I 've never seen her . I 'd hate to waste my speech on the wrong person , because It 's very well written and I spent a lot of time and energy memorizing it . Beautiful ladies , please do n't treat me badly . I 'm very sensitive , and even the smallest bit of rudeness hurts my feelings .
I 'm not sticking around here any more . I do n't trust you . You might be a better fighter than I am , but my legs are longer and I can run away faster .
Hold on to your crown and use your better judgment to rethink this rash decision . On my life I swear to you that your youngest daughter does n't love you least . A loud mouth often points to an empty heart , and just because she 's quiet does n't mean she 's unloving .
That 's nothing ! He is old , I 'm young .
Because of your advice and your help , I have a high position now . But will I wear these honors for only a day or will I enjoy them for a long time ?
A fortunate coincidence -- more fortunate for your son . I can now call you " father " in a legal sense , not just out of respect for your age . The sister of my wife , this lady here , is married to your son . And there 's no need for wonder or worry . His bride is well thought of , with a rich dowry and noble birth -- a fit wife for any nobleman .
What must be will be .
I went to find another poor friar from our order to accompany me . He was here in this city visiting the sick . When I found him , the town health officials suspected that we were both in a house that had been hit with the plague . They quarantined the house , sealed up the doors , and refused to let us out . I could n't go to Mantua because I was stuck there .
Silence ! Brutus speaks .
May God take revenge on him !
Listen , how heavily he breathes ! Look in his pockets .
Then how does she know our names ? By magic ?
I swear I gave it to a youth , a kind of boy , a little stunted boy , no taller than yourself . He was the judge 's clerk , a chatty boy who wanted it as a fee . I did n't have the heart to say no to him .
But she is wise .
Forget about her , and listen to me .
Do n't hurt me , please . I promise I 'll carry the wood faster .
Why are you hiding that letter ?
I 'll stay in Messina until you 're married , and then I 'll go to Aragon .
I think I recognize you from a description I was given of your clothing and age : " The boy is pretty and feminine , and carries himself like a blooming young woman . The woman is short , with a darker complexion than her brother . " Are n't you the owners of the house I was just asking about ?
Take care , Charles .
He who is dizzy thinks the world is spinning .
You remember the place --I met you there once with Helena to celebrate May Day . --I 'll wait for you there .
God bless you , sir . I want the same thing as all these other people . I 've come here to be married , like all these other would-be couples . This poor virgin is n't much to look at , sir , but she 's mine . It 's a strange habit of mine to take the thing that no one else wants : virginity in an ugly girl is like a rich man living in a broken-down house or a pearl in the hideous oyster .
It 's not good for your health , either . You rudely snuck out of bed . And last night at dinner , you got up abruptly and paced back and forth with your arms crossed , brooding and sighing , and when I asked you what was the matter , you gave me a dirty look . I asked you again , and you scratched your head and stamped your foot impatiently . I still insisted on knowing what the matter was , but you would n't answer me , instead giving me an angry wave of your hand and telling me to leave you alone . So I left , afraid of further provoking anger that was already inflamed but still hoping this was merely moodiness , which everyone is affected by once in awhile . Your strange mood wo n't let you eat or talk or sleep . If it had changed your outward appearance as much as it has affected you on the inside , I would n't even be able to recognize you , Brutus . My dear lord , tell me what 's bothering you .
You 're absolutely right . Come on then , sing me a dirty song . Make me laugh . I lived my life as properly as a gentleman should . Well , properly enough , anyway . I did n't swear much . I did n't gamble -- more than seven days a week . I went to a whorehouse no more than once -- every fifteen minutes . I paid my debts -- three or four times . I lived well and within reasonable boundaries . And now , I live poorly and out of moderation .
I 'm not defying you , but it 's what I 'm going to do .
Do n't make me do it , my lady . I 'm critical by nature .
Wait a minute , Jew . The law has another hold on you . The laws of Venice state that if a foreign resident directly or indirectly attempts to kill any citizen , the person he tried to kill will receive one half of the foreigner 's goods . The other half goes to the state . Whether the offending person lives or dies is up to the duke -- there 's no one else to appeal to . In your predicament you 've earned that punishment , because you 've clearly contrived indirectly -- and directly too -- to take the life of the defendant . So get down on your knees and beg mercy from the duke .
Favorably , except that there was n't enough time for his Grace to hear , as I sensed he would have liked to , the details about how he is rightfully entitled to certain dukedoms in France , and to the throne of France in general , through clear lines of descent originating with his great - grandfather , Edward III .
Why then , I 'm looking at a very brave rebel by that name . I am the Prince of Wales , and do n't think , Percy , that you can share in my glory any longer . There is n't enough room for two stars in the same orbit ; England cannot handle a double reign , Harry Percy and the Prince of Wales ruling at once .
Why do you say that ?
Robin Starveling , you 're going to play Thisbe 's mother . --Tom Snout , the handyman .
Yes , that the king is dead .
I would n't change my mind even if she were black - skinned .
There will be times when my duties and responsibilities take me away from you .
You 've owed me this money since the Pentecost holiday . I have n't pressed you for it , and I would n't now except that I 'm going to Persia and I need money for the trip . So pay me now , or I 'll have this officer arrest you .
There 's one of them called Vincentio ? Do you know him ?
About an hour for the ringing and fifteen minutes for the crying . That 's why it 's better for wise men to trumpet their own virtues , like I do . That 's why I praise myself , who -- if I do say so myself -- is quite praiseworthy . But tell me , how is your cousin ?
You are right , it 's for my mistress .
Scratch my head , Peaseblossom . Where 's Monsieur Cobweb ?
A very valiant and knowledgeable gentleman . If only it were day ! Poor Harry of England ! He does n't long for the dawn as we do .
I am being serious , my lord . I welcome you here as well . Now that you and your brother have made friends again , I owe you the same allegiance I owe Don Pedro .
And why , please tell me ? Is your mother a goddess that you would insult a wretched man , and exult over the injury you 've caused him , all at the same time ? You 're not beautiful -- really , you 're not so pretty that you could go to bed with the lights on -- so why must you act so proud and pitiless ? Wait a minute , what 's going on ? Why are you looking at me like that ? I do n't see anything in you but nature 's usual handiwork . --Oh , for God 's sake , I think she also wants me to fall in love with her . No , proud woman , do n't hope for that . Not even your black eyebrows , your silky black hair , your beady black eyeballs , or your yellowish - white complexion can make me worship you . You foolish shepherd : why are you following her , raining tears and puffing hot air like a foggy south wind ? You are a thousand times better than she . It 's fools like you who , marrying badly , fill the world with ugly children . It 's not her mirror but you who insists she 's beautiful . The image of herself that she gets from you is better than her actual features .
Are these wind instruments ?
What are you saying , mistress ?
I did n't come here to listen to this .
What 's my name ? Where am I going ? Where do I live ? Am I a married man or a bachelor ? Then , to answer every man briefly , wisely , and truthfully -- wisely I say , I am a bachelor .
Hardly , Kate . By the same token you are worth no less for your simple clothes and lack of finery . If you regard it as shameful , put the shame on me . So , let 's perk up ! We 're off to eat and whoop it up at your father 's house . Go , call my men so we can leave right away . And bring our horses to the end of Long Lane . We 'll walk there on foot and mount up there . Let 's see , I think it must be seven o'clock , so we should get there easily by lunchtime .
And welcome , welcome ! Die where you have lived , in my arms . Let me revive you with my kisses . If my lips had the power to give life , I would wear them out like this .
No , you should give a woman your sword -- we have our own bucklers !
Henry 's actions join forces with my illness , and together they will kill me . Sons , look at what things you are . See how quickly blood bonds are broken , once money 's involved . This is what happens to foolish , overly concerned fathers who ruin their sleep with worry , burden their minds with anxiety , and break their bodies with hard work . This is what happens to fathers who amass vast amounts of money , earned in unsavory ways . This is what happens to fathers who have taken care to give their sons good educations , and train them in matters of war . Fathers are like bees , collecting sweet pollen from all the flowers in the world . We pack our thighs full of wax and our mouths full of honey , only to be killed when we return to the hive . This is the bitter fate of the dying father , no matter what he has accumulated in his life .
No , by my honor , but they told me to come get you .
In Sicyon . In this letter you 'll find details of her illness and other , more serious matters that concern you .
She hangs around me and dangles from my neck and cries , shaking me and pulling at me . Ha , ha , ha !
In that case , my queen , let 's travel silently and solemnly across the globe to where it 's still night , circling the earth faster than the moon does .
A cup of wine that 's fresh and fine , And drink to you , darling mine , And a happy heart lives long !
By losing his mind .
You go ahead , and I will follow you .
Oh , my handsome nephew , I must not say that .
Stay right near me . I may mess it up .
Oh , Dorset , do n't waste your time talking to me . Leave . Death and destruction are following at your heels . Your mother 's name has become a threat to her own children . If you want to outrun death , go cross the sea to France and stay with Richmond , out of the reach of hell . Go , get out of here , get out of this slaughterhouse . Otherwise you 'll just increase the number of the dead , and make me die the slave of Margaret 's curse , no longer a mother , a wife , or England 's queen .
That 's my sister .
Young man , your father 's dead . What are you going to do now ? How are you going to live ?
Change into better clothes . These rags will just remind us of those bad times when you had to wear a disguise . Please take them off .
Then why did you travel so quietly ? You did n't arrive like Caesar 's sister . Antony 's wife should have an army to escort her , with neighing horses to announce her arrival long before she appears . The trees along the road should have been filled with eager spectators . Crowds should have been faint with excitement waiting to see you . The dust from your attending troops should have risen to heaven . But you 've arrived like a common maid bringing goods to a Roman market . You 've kept me from displaying my love -- and when love is not shown , it 's often not felt . I would have met you by sea and again by land . At each stage of your trip there would have been a more spectacular greeting .
I 'll take responsibility for that .
I 'd rather break my own heart . Now please go in .
Who are you talking to ?
Great happiness !
What news , man ?
Many people faint when they see blood .
No more talking . Let 's have her .
Alla nostra casa ben venuto , molto honorato signor mio Petruchio ! Get up , Grumio . We 'll settle this quarrel .
I know what you 're about to say . If I had slept with her , you 'd say that we did so as husband and wife , merely anticipating our eventual marriage . No , Leonato . I never seduced her , or tempted her with indecent words . I treated her like a brother would treat a sister , with modest sincerity and appropriate affection .
With Rosaline , father ? No , I have forgotten that girl and all the sadness she brought me .
My King ! My God ! I 'm talking to you , my heart !
Why did you cry out in your sleep ?
It looks like we 're not going to get food or welcome here .
Good night , madam . Thank you .
The body 's only out of sorts . It can be brought back to full health through good care and some medicine . Northumberland will soon be suppressed .
I 'll go , my lord , and tell him what you say .
Oui , dat de tongues of de mans is be full of deceits : dere 's de princess for you .
Now I say good night to your bones , Hero . I will perform this ceremony every year .
No , who are you talking about ?
Continue , Solinus , and bring on my downfall . Give me the death sentence and end all my troubles .
I must join the duke for lunch . I 'll be back here with you by two o'clock .
" De nails , " madame .
There was never a mother who suffered so much loss . Alas , I am the mother of all these others ' griefs . Each of them has a single loss , while I share them all . She weeps for Edward and so do I , while she does not weep for Clarence , though I do . These young children cry for Clarence and so do I , though they do n't cry for Edward , as I do . Alas , all of you can turn to me with your sorrow , because I feel all of it . I will comfort you by adding my own grief to your sorrow .
At the old place , my lord . In Eastcheap .
Your yellow stockings ?
So you had time as you were dying to look around ?
Francis !
Say , uncle Richard , if my brother comes , where will I stay till my coronation ?
Oh Ratcliffe , I had a terrifying dream ! What do you think , will my friends prove loyal ?
Not a chance ! I 'll have nothing to do with you .
He insists on talking .
But God forbid he says no to us !
Friends of this country .
You 'd better not wear your dagger in your cap that day , or he might slap your head with it .
I 'm only scolding you now , but I should treat you much worse , because I 'm afraid you 've given me good reason to curse you . If you killed Lysander while he was sleeping , then you 're already up to your ankles in blood . You might as well jump right into a bloodbath and kill me , too .
For God 's sake , Sir Toby , you 've got to come home earlier at night . My lady Olivia , your niece , disapproves of your late-night partying .
Do n't go there , Master Shallow . Do n't go there .
If only I could spit poison .
Well , do your best .
Have I not stood in the middle of a battle , with loud calls to arms , horses neighing , and trumpets sounding all around me ? And you worry how I 'll react to a woman 's tongue , which is n't even as loud as the pop ! of a chestnut roasting in some farmer 's oven ? Please . Scare children with your bugaboos .
Good day and happiness to you , darling Rosalind .
I 'll open my arms wide to his true friends , and like a mother pelican with her brood , I 'll even give my life for them .
Some startling news has just arrived , sir .
Who , him ? I think all tendencies to jealousy were burned out of him by the sun of his native land .
Come on , let 's go . The sight of lovers nourishes whoever else is in love . Bring us to this little show , and I 'll take a part in their play .
If your father is alive , let him be sorry you were n't born a daughter . And you should be sorry to follow Caesar in his triumphal parade , since you have been whipped for following him . From now on , you should tremble and grow feverish whenever you see the white hand of a lady . Get yourself back to Caesar . Tell him how you 've been treated . Be sure you tell him he makes me angry with him , because he seems proud and disdainful , harping on what I am now rather than what he knows . He makes me angry -- and that 's easy to do right now , now that my lucky stars have abandoned me . If he does n't like what I 've said or done , remind him that he holds Hipparchus , a slave I freed . He may whip , or hang , or torture him as he pleases . Then we will be even . Recommend that to him . Take your whipping scars and go .
Now Sir John , what do you think , Sir John ? Do you think I have thieves in my establishment ? I 've searched , I 've asked questions ; so has my husband . We 've asked every man , boy and servant here . No one 's ever lost so much as a fraction of a hair in this tavern before .
I 'm sorry my noble brother is suspicious of me . By God , I 'm here because I love him . Return and tell him so .
It 's a horrible thing to die when you 're not prepared for it , my gracious lord .
But you should tell her about this , and hear what she has to say .
Go , little fellow , walk all around Verona . Find the people on this list and tell them they 're welcome at my house tonight .
The partygoers have arrived . Let 's give them room .
Yes , my lord .
Help ! Help ! Oh , lady , speak again . Sweet Desdemona ! Oh sweet mistress , speak !
Life 's better at breaking hearts than art is . --Hey , a new recruit . Here 's your enlistment bonus . --Look how awkwardly he handles his crossbow . --Come on , pull it back farther ! --Look , look , a mouse ! Calm down , this
Morning , Ned .
What , an argument already ? What 's the matter ?
Do you think so , spirit ?
Strike !
Oh , you poor shepherd !
So now the world will only be devoured by two sets of jaws --Caesar 's and Antony 's . And even if you throw everything you possess to the two of them , they 'll battle each other to the death to have it all . Where 's Antony ?
What would you like me to do ?
Is this the family tomb of Leonato ?
Maybe the letter upset him . I think they want him to go home and appoint Cassio governor in his place .
I always pray for them because " they " are none other than myself . If I cursed Clarence 's wrongdoers , I 'd be cursing myself .
It may be true , but it 's unbelievable .
Gentlemen , I 've made my decision . That 's all there is to it . Go inside , Bianca .
The complaints I have heard about you are very serious .
Amen to that ! I ca n't talk about my happiness anymore . It 's too much . I hope these kisses I 'm about to give you are the closest we ever come to fighting .
I wo n't say a word . You can be a eunuch , but I 'll be mute . I swear on my life I wo n't tell your secret .
You know right now all my money 's tied up in that cargo that 's still at sea . I ca n't give you the cash you need because I do n't have it . But go ahead and charge things to me on credit , as much credit as I can get in Venice . I 'll use all my lines of credit to help you get to Belmont , to Portia . Go see who will lend money , and I 'll do the same . I 'm sure I can get something either as a business loan , or as a personal favor .
Oh , you 'll soften as time passes . While you 're waiting for that to happen , though , hurry to Leonato 's . Give him my respects , and tell him I 'll definitely be there for dinner , since I know he has gone to great lengths for this meal .
What was the second noise for ?
They shall go in to the bridal dinner , Kate - -they 're yours to command . Obey the bride , guests ! Go to the banquet : revel , feast , and carouse ! Drink yourselves silly toasting her virginity ! Be wild and merry -- or go to hell . But as for my bonny Kate , she must come with me . No , do n't puff out your chests and stamp and stare wonderingly . I will be master of what belongs to me . She is my property , one of my possessions -- just like my house and everything in it , and my field , my barn , my horse , my ox , my donkey -- anything of mine you care to name . Here she is ; I dare you to touch her ! I 'll sue anyone in Padua who tries to stand in my way , no matter how powerful he is . --Grumio , draw your sword ! We are surrounded by thieves . Rescue your mistress ! Prove yourself a man ! Do n't be afraid , sweet girl , I wo n't let them touch you . I 'll protect you , Kate , against a million of them .
My sons Edward and Clarence !
Fool !
I can tell by the way you waggle your head .
Hey ! Stop right there !
That 's what they 're saying she did .
He is taking care of it as we speak . But brother , I have some strange news for you .
Oh , to think you 've been rejected !
What , you want them to weep our horses ' blood ? Then how will we see their own natural tears ?
I 'm your guardian angel again , you fresh piece of meat . The money 's been paid back .
He ca n't bear his grief and so he 's losing his mind . May God reward you for your kindness !
I met the young man at Lawrence 's cell . I treated him with the proper love , as well as I could , while still being modest .
And tell us what extraordinary occurrence made you so late for your wedding and drove you to present yourself in an outfit that 's so -- not typical of you .
Come , come with me , and we 'll do the job quickly . Because if you do n't mind , I 'm not leaving you two alone until you 're united in marriage .
What , Roderigo from Venice ?
Saw who ?
Oh no ! I saw sweetness and beauty in her face of the kind that humbled great Jove . He saw it in Europa that time she brought him to his knees in Crete .
Come with me , sir .
Mount them and dig your spurs into their flanks so that their hot blood may spurt in English eyes and douse them with some of the spare courage we have around . Ha !
As my child , I order you to do so .
I do n't want anything but that . Now that I think about it , I really want it .
I do n't feel so well , but I wo n't stop .
I 'll bring the crazy beggar the best clothes I have , no matter what happens .
Hush , son . --Sir , may I ? Having come to Padua to collect some debts , my son Lucentio acquainted me with a serious matter , namely the love between your daughter and himself . Now , since I 've heard good reports of you , and in view of the love between your daughter and my son , I 'm willing to give my consent to his marriage right away . So , if you think you can put up with no worse a man than I am , you 'll find me willing , pending some agreement , to see your daughter betrothed to him . I ca n't haggle with you , Signior Baptista . I have too much respect for you .
Tell the Earl that the Lord Bardolph is here to see him .
No , lovely princess . He is the general challenger . I have only come in -- like the others have -- to try to fight him with the strength of my youth .
He is what he is . I wo n't say anything negative about what he might be . If he is n't what he might be , then I wish to God he were !
We have , your highness .
Has he asked for me ?
He " was , " but that does n't mean he is anymore . Besides , the promises of a lover are as untrustworthy as a bartender handing you an inflated tab : they both swear to their lies . He 's staying in the forest with your father now .
Yes , my lord .
Come with me , please . I wish you 'd do what I ask !
I like him very well .
Two reasons . And good ones , too .
You are my love , my love , I think .
What do you think he wants ?
Gratiano !
Madam , Count Orsino 's young messenger has returned . It was hard to get him to come back , but he 's here now , waiting for you .
For the favor of sleeping in her bed .
That means you 're the weak one , because weaklings get pushed up against the wall .
It 's true , no place -- not even a church -- should offer refuge to that murderer . Revenge should have no limits . But Laertes , will you do this : stay in your room ? When Hamlet comes home he 'll learn you 're here . I 'll have people praise your excellence and put a double coat on the fame the Frenchman gave you . In short , we 'll get you together and place bets on you . Hamlet 's so careless , high - minded , and unsuspecting that he wo n't examine the swords beforehand , so you can easily choose one with a sharpened point and in one thrust avenge the death of your father .
Good , sir ?
To --
Goodbye .
Well , the fuel that sustained that fire is gone . That 's all the wealth I ever earned in his company .
A crow without feathers ? Master , do you really mean that ? He said " when fish have no fins , " and you came back with a bird with no feathers . If a crow gets us in , sirrah , then you and I will have a crow to pluck together .
Why are you calling him a jerk ? What did he do to you ?
Never , Regan . She 's sent away half my knights , glared at me , and aimed her venomous insults straight at my heart . She and her ingratitude can go to hell ! I hope she gets sick and becomes lame !
My king says this : " Tell Harry of England : though we appeared dead , we were only asleep . Strategy makes a better soldier than haste . Tell him we could have driven him back at Harfleur but thought it unwise to burst a pustule before it had fully ripened . Now the time is right for us to speak , and we do so with imperial authority . The king of England will regret his foolishness , discover his weakness , and marvel at our restraint . Tell him therefore to consider what ransom he can offer as a prisoner of war . It must be commensurate with the losses we have suffered , the subjects we
I 'm ready .
Because their legs are the same size , and he likes to play the game of quoits and eat fatty foods ; and he 'll play drinking games , like dropping burning candle ends into his drinks . He plays on the see-saw with the boys , and pulls crazy stunts , and curses nicely . And his boots fit nice and smooth , just like the ones painted on the shoe store 's signs . And he does n't cause trouble by spilling secrets . He has all kinds of qualities associated with weak minds and healthy bodies , and that 's why the Prince keeps him around : because the Prince is exactly the same . There 's not a hair 's difference between the two of them .
Turn the ship to the wind ! Set the sails and let her go out to sea again !
he sent me out to find you , even though I 'm a stranger to you . He wanted me to tell you this story and beg your forgiveness for his having broken his promise . He wanted me to give this handkerchief , soaked in his blood , to the boy that he jokingly calls his Rosalind .
Yes , pointy , but you could take the edge off me -- though it might make you moan a little .
Good spirit ! Who could ever be so steady and strong that a disturbance like that would n't make him crazy ?
Are you looking up ?
Well , here 's what I 'm thinking . As you talk with someone and hint about my son 's faults and little sins , you 'll watch his reaction , and if he 's ever seen Laertes do any of these things , it will only be natural for him to agree with you , at which point he 'll call you " sir , " or " my good friend , " depending on who the person is , where he comes from , and so on .
If it pleases you , let 's go to your room .
No doubt , but you may be going about it the wrong way --Neighbor , this gift is very gracious , I 'm sure . I myself , who am more indebted to you than anyone , have brought you this young scholar who has long studied at Rheims . He is as expert in Greek , Latin , and other languages as that other man is in music and mathematics . His name is Cambio . Please accept his services .
We 'll all want our fortune told .
I 'm all right .
Nurse , he 's a man who likes to hear the sound of his own voice . He says more in one minute than he does in a whole month .
No , my lord , unless I could have another husband for the work week . You are too expensive to wear every day . But please , forgive me , your highness . I was born to speak cleverly , not seriously .
Good - bye . Be happy .
I do n't know what you 're talking about .
The greed you 're talking about is worse than lust because you wo n't outgrow it . Greed has been the downfall of many kings . But do n't be afraid . Scotland has enough treasures to satisfy you out of your own royal coffers . These bad qualities are bearable when balanced against your good sides .
Dark as hell , Sir Topas .
That our clothes were drenched with sea water , but they came out looking brand - new .
Oh , you must stop ! Your words are like daggers . Please , no more , sweet Hamlet .
I 'm not sticking around to listen to you any longer . Leave me alone . Or if you follow me , you 'd better understand that I 'll do something bad to you in the forest .
Sit down , Clitus . Killed , most likely -- it 's become a trend . Listen , Clitus .
Thanks for letting me go . It 's bitterly cold out , and I 'm depressed .
Oh God , Iago , what can I do to win my husband back again ? Please go to him , my friend . I swear I have no idea why he stopped loving me . Here I 'm kneeling to swear that if I ever did anything to destroy his love for me , either by thoughts or actions , or if I ever took pleasure in anyone else , or if I never did love him , or do n't love him now -- even though he tries to shake me off --
I did -- and now I 've got it !
How many infatuated people go mad with jealousy !
Think about Grey , and despair !
Romeo !
This was the noblest Roman of them all . All the rest of the conspirators acted out of jealousy of great Caesar . Only he acted from honesty and for the general good . His life was gentle , and the elements mixed so well in him that Nature might stand up and say to all the world , " This was a man . "
What a wise judge ! Come on , get ready .
Enough already ; stop this useless talking .
I remember a jumble of impressions , but nothing distinctly . I remember a fight , but not why we were fighting . Oh God , why do men drink and lose their minds ? Why do we party until we 're like animals ?
Open your ears ! For who could possibly block them when loud Rumor speaks ? I make the wind my horse , and ride it from the Orient in the east to the place where the sun sets in the west , describing the events taking place in the world . I continually tell lies and I tell them in every language , stuffing men 's ears with falsehoods . I say that things are peaceful when , in reality , concealed hatred is at work , hidden behind smiles of good will . And who but Rumor -- who besides me -- can make armies prepare anxious defenses , when in fact the world is uneasy for other reasons and there 's no war coming at all ? Rumor is like a flute . Guesswork , suspicion , and speculation are the breath that makes it sound , and it 's so easy to play that even the common masses -- that dim monster with innumerable heads , forever clamoring and wavering -- can play it . But why should I describe myself in such detail to the one group of people who knows exactly what falsehood is all about : a theater audience ? Why am I here ? King Henry has won the war , and at Shrewsbury , he ended the rebellion against him by defeating Hotspur and his allies , quenching the fire of revolt with the rebels ' own blood . But what am I doing , telling you the truth up front ? My job is to spread word that Hotspur in his fury killed Prince Hal , and that Douglas killed the King . I 've spread this rumor through all the peasant
Please accept my feeble " good morning . "
Whatever pertains to myself I will deal with last .
Your Majesty , see here -- if it wo n't offend your Grace - -what a complete , rascally , beggarly , lousy rat this is . I hope your Majesty will , in all good conscience , bear me out and vouch for the fact that this is the glove of Alencon and that your Majesty gave it to me .
Oh God -- who is , by the way , the best comic of them all . What can you do but be happy ? Look how cheerful my mother is , only two hours after my father died .
I love someone . She does n't love me .
It 's true I heard a humming sound , a strange one , which woke me up . I shook you and shouted at you , sir . When I opened my eyes , I saw their swords out . There was a noise , that 's certainly true . We should either be on guard here constantly or move to a different camp . Let 's draw our own swords too .
That 's five to one . Besides , they 're fresh .
There is no rest to be had in any bedroom where you are !
Yes , it stinks very sweetly .
And you ca n't put your heads together and figure out why he 's acting so dazed and confused , ruining his peace and quiet with such dangerous displays of lunacy ?
Have Westmoreland deliver your message of defiance .
He does nothing but frown , as if he wants to say , " If you do n't want me , I do n't care . " He does n't even smile when he hears funny stories . If he 's so sad and solemn when he 's young , I can only imagine how much he 'll cry as an old man . No , I 'd rather be married to a skull with a bone in its mouth than to either of those men . God protect me from these two !
Oh spiteful love ! Faithless womanhood ! It 's incredible , Litio !
Go somewhere else for a while . Calm down . While you were dazed by grief -- which is n't appropriate for a man like you --Cassio showed up here . I got him to leave , and made up an excuse for your trance . I told him to come back and talk to me in a bit , and he promised he would . So hide here and watch how he sneers
We hear that the princes , those murderers , have hidden in England and Ireland . They have n't confessed to cruelly murdering their own father , and they 've been making up strange lies to tell their hosts . But we can talk more about that tomorrow , when we 'll discuss matters of state that concern us both . Hurry up and get to your horse . Good - bye , until you return tonight . Is Fleance going with you ?
May heaven protect your highness from all enemies -- and when they do rise up , may they fall just like the ones I 've come to tell you about . The Earl of Northumberland and Lord Bardolph , with their mighty armies of Englishmen and Scotsmen , were defeated by the Sheriff of Yorkshire . This letter will tell you the details .
But do n't be too tame , either -- let your good sense guide you . Fit the action to the word and the word to the action . Act natural at all costs . Exaggeration has no place in the theater , where the purpose is to represent reality , holding a mirror up to virtue , to vice , and to the spirit of the times . If you handle this badly , it just makes ignorant people laugh while regular theater-goers are miserable -- and they 're the ones you should be keeping happy .
Good night . I hope the king recovers soon !
No , good goose , do n't bite me .
Even though it 's early , there are already a thousand armored soldiers waiting for you at the harbor .
This extreme passion is bad for you , sir .
He 's a good soldier to a lady ? Well then , what is he to a lord ?
Hello , sir .
Get out of here , you scab !
No , I 'll prove it with airtight evidence and logical argument .
Calm down , dear mother . God is unhappy that you 've responded so unthankfully to his doings . In everyday life , when a person is unwilling to pay back a loan that was generously offered , he 's considered ungrateful . How much worse it is when Heaven is the lender , as in your case ?
But when exactly will we see Benedick married ?
Take care of my former husband 's property , and --
Go tell everyone there 's a riot . --
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry . Did n't you say something ?
Oh , this is why your poor wife is mourning !
Sometimes I do and sometimes I do n't . I 'm afraid of hoping , but I hope anyway .
Really , if you were thinking of having me write poetry or dance for you , Kate , you 've defeated me already . I have no gift for the one and no strength for the other , though I have the gift of strength . If I could win a lady by playing leapfrog or vaulting into my saddle with my armor on my back -- though you may accuse me of boasting --I could easily get myself a wife . I can fight with my fists and rear my horse up without falling off him , if either of those things could win me love . But ,
Put Worcester to death , and Vernon too : I 'll wait a while before I decide what to do about the others .
He is as full of courage as of kindness , princely in both .
Now , if we agree Hamlet 's crazy , then the next step is to figure out the cause of this effect of craziness , or I suppose I should say the cause of this defect , since this defective effect is caused by something . This is what we must do , and that 's exactly what needs to be done . Think about it . I have a daughter who 's given me this letter , considering it her duty . Listen and think about this : " To the heavenly idol of my soul , the most beautified Ophelia " --By the way , " beautified " sounds bad , it sounds awful , it sounds crude , it 's a terrible use of the word . But I 'll go on : " In her excellent white bosom , " et cetera , et cetera -- you do n't need to hear all this stuff --
I 'll do anything you ask , monster , anything reasonable . --Come on , Trinculo , let 's sing . Dismiss ' em and ziss ' em And diss ' em and dismiss ' em . Thought is free .
Once again you bring good news .
The Turks are heading for Cyprus with a powerful fleet . Othello , you understand better than anyone how the defenses for Cyprus work . Even though we have a very good officer in charge there already , everyone says you 're the better man for the job . So I 'll have to ask you to put a damper on your marriage celebrations and take part in this dangerous expedition .
They 've switched their operation to the sea today . We did n't please them on land .
Here is the count of the slaughtered French .
I 'll hold on to your money and leave you for an hour .
Have his daughters made him crazy like this?- -Could n't you have kept something for yourself ? Did you have to give them everything ?
What are you talking about ?
No , ma'am .
You said it when you were furious . Say it again -- just one word , and my hand , which killed your lover out of love , will kill your far truer lover . You will be an accessory to both crimes .
And time itself is ended .
Still , Edmund was beloved . One of the sisters poisoned the other out of love for me , and then killed herself .
Stop arguing and listen to my plans . Whether I go ahead with them or not is completely up to you . I swear by the sun that when I leave here , it will be as your faithful servant . I will make either peace or war , whichever you prefer .
Under Captain Gower , my liege .
Your father the King is in Westminster . Twenty exhausted messengers have arrived from the north . And , on my way here , I met a dozen captains , hustling and working hard , knocking on the door of every tavern and searching for Sir John Falstaff .
The worse for me , no doubt about it .
Yes , my lord .
That 's the way great men ought to endure great losses .
Thomas Wart !
Fruits and vegetables do n't ripen until the right season of the year . Likewise , I 'm young , and my sense of reason has just ripened . I can finally see the light . My logic has more control over my desires than it used to , and it 's telling me to look into your eyes , where I see every love story ever told .
Wait , and breathe for a moment . You have redeemed your bad reputation , and show that you care something for me , by rescuing me like this .
Listen ! Where are my bodyguards ? Let them guard the door .
Take a look at their servants ' name tags , my lords , then tell me what they are . This misshapen monster , his mother was a witch so powerful she could control the moon and the tides . These three have robbed me , and this bastard half - devil plotted with them to kill me . Two of these men you must recognize and claim as your own . This evil monster I acknowledge is mine .
Then give it a nice welcome , as you would give to any stranger . There are more things in heaven and earth , Horatio , than you 've even dreamed of . But now listen to me . No matter how strangely I act , you must never , ever let on -- with a gesture of your hands or a certain expression on your face -- that you know anything about what happened to me here tonight . You must never say anything like , " Ah , yes , just as we suspected , " or " We could tell you a thing or two about him , " or anything like that . Swear you wo n't .
Yes , my lord , but I 'd rather kill two enemies .
He 's gone ?
Where 's Shadow ?
We wo n't , sir .
It is rather cold , indeed , my lord .
The king is a good king , but things must be as they may . He has his moods and his ways .
Fool , I say !
What ?
Well then , here 's more money for you . But you know , sirrah , we customarily say that the dead are well . If that 's what you mean , I 'll melt this gold and pour it down your throat that speaks these hateful words .
Maybe you will find a husband without a beard .
She could even what ? She could marry a king , a bachelor , a handsome young lad . Certainly , your grandmother had a worse match .
Your Majesty is quite right . If your Majesties recall it , the Welsh fought very valiantly in a garden where there were leeks growing , wearing leeks in their Monmouth caps which , your Majesty knows , is to this day a badge of honorable military service . I do believe your Majesty takes no shame in wearing the leek on Saint Davy 's Day .
Well , I 'd rather not open up a wound that 's just healed . The good work you did at Shrewsbury has made up a little for the bad thing you did at Gad 's Hill . You can thank the rebellion for helping you get away with that terrible deed .
she hears what you 've done to me , she 'll tear up your wolflike face with her fingernails . And then you 'll see that despite what you thought , I 'll be as powerful as I was before . You 'll see , I promise you .
I wish I could keep killing him for nine years straight . Oh , she 's a fine woman ! A fair woman ! A sweet woman !
It 's true , my lord . He lent it to me once , and I paid him back with interest : a double heart for his single one . Really , he won it from me once before in a dishonest game of dice . So I suppose your grace can truly say that I have lost it .
So if he says he loves you , you should be wise enough to see that his words only mean as much as the state of Denmark allows them to mean . Then think about how shameful it would be for you to give in to his seductive talk and surrender your treasure chest to his greedy hands . Watch out , Ophelia . Just keep your love under control , and do n't let yourself become a target of his lust . Simply exposing your beauty to the moon at night is risky enough -- you do n't have to expose yourself to him . Even good girls sometimes get a bad reputation . Worms ruin flowers before they blossom . Baby blooms are most susceptible to disease . So be careful . Fear will keep you safe . Young people often lose their self-control even without any help from others .
This song 's about my dead father . It could n't be sung by mere mortals . I hear it now overhead .
Sir , is everyone in your family at home ?
In my kingdom I 'd do everything differently from the way it 's usually done . I would n't allow any commerce . There 'd be no officials or administrators . There 'd be no schooling or literature . There 'd be no riches , no poverty , and no servants -- none . No contracts or inheritance laws ; no division of the land into private farms , no metal - working , agriculture , or vineyards . There 'd be no work . Men would have nothing to do , and women also -- but they 'd be innocent and pure . There 'd be no kingship --
A sword 's too heavy for you to wear .
Mustardseed .
What thing ? A thing to say " thank God " for .
They drink Danes under the table , and it takes them no effort at all to out - drink Germans . And the Dutch are vomiting while the English are asking for refills .
Peace is a victory of sorts : both sides stop fighting honorably , but neither loses .
A constant pain to me !
Beware of March 15th .
No more about that , please . Messala , I have received these letters explaining that young Octavius and Mark Antony are rushing toward Philippi and bearing down upon us with a mighty power .
What is he saying , sir ?
The Count sent me an excellent pair of perfumed gloves .
And you are a genuine coward , with no instinct .
One of those dogs from the Montague house can make me angry .
Yes , that 's true .
Why , what 's the matter ?
But you do n't love me . Please , just walk with me a little ways , and tell me if I 'll see you later tonight .
If he 's sick from joy , then he 'll get better without medicine .
My peasant , acting like this ?
No.
Get out of here , you blathering peasant ! Bring your master home .
What ? You 've pulled out your sword to fight with these worthless servants ? Turn around , Benvolio , and look at the man who 's going to kill you .
Is the news good or bad that you enter without knocking ?
Evidence enough to deceive the Prince , anger Claudio , ruin Hero , and kill Leonato . Is there anything else you wish ?
Thank you , I 'm sure . My learned lord , kindly explain to us the legal and religious grounds for why this French Salic law either should or should n't bar me in my claim . And God forbid , my dear and faithful lord , that you should invent , twist , or distort your interpretation , or burden your conscience by subtly arguing for false claims . For God knows how many healthy men will shed their blood in support of whatever you persuade me to do . So think carefully before you incite me
I wo n't have any of this . We 're wasting our time . We 'll miss our chance and be turned into geese or apes with low foreheads .
No , you 've got it wrong . When I said " chat her up , " I was n't saying her name . I was telling you to go after her , woo her , confront her .
Well then , Margaret , Ursula , and my cousin have been very much deceived , for they swore you did .
Here comes a messenger . What 's the news ?
Those are only two of his weapons . But , go on .
Why , with your husband , madam . My lord .
Is he dead ?
You can take a break . Leave us alone , why do n't you ? I do n't teach music for a threesome .
That really is an illegitimate hope . Then I 'd be punished for the sins of my mother .
I 'm as good a man as Falstaff , whoever I am . Will you surrender ? Or am I going to have to break a sweat making you surrender ? If I sweat , the drops will be the tears of your loved ones , weeping over your death . So you 'd better get scared and start to shake , and start praying to me for mercy .
What , are you standing here doing nothing ? Give me your sword . Many good men are lying cold and dead on the ground , with the enemy 's horses galloping over them . Their deaths have not been revenged . Come , give me your sword .
I sent for you to come speak with me . There were charges against you that might have earned you the death penalty .
The Tower 's chaplain has buried them , but to tell you the truth , I do n't know where .
Oh gods , oh gods ! Must I endure all this ?
He 's walking ahead of me , and he keeps daring me to follow him . When I reach the place he 's calling from , he disappears . This villain is much quicker than I am . I ran after him fast , but he ran away from me faster , so that now here I am in some dark part of the forest where the ground is uneven .
Oh , how stupid ! I 've been alive for twenty-eight years , and I 've never met a man who knew what was good for him . I 'd rather be a baboon than kill myself out of love for some woman I ca n't have .
Who are you , coming so fast in this quiet night ?
This means we 're having some mischievous fun .
Farewell to both of you , dear teachers . I have to go .
No , they ca n't accuse me of counterfeiting coins . I 'm the king himself .
And he 's not going to do any tomorrow . That part of his reputation will stand .
All but the low note .
Cesario is my name -- your servant 's name-- fair princess .
Whose house ?
He said he did --I do n't know .
Your attendant asses are getting the horses ready . There 's a nice reason why the constellation Pleiades has only seven stars in it .
Stop now , kinsman Percy . You will upset him .
No , you do n't need to worry about us , Lorenzo . Launcelot and I ca n't agree on anything . He says I wo n't get into heaven because I 'm a Jew 's daughter , and he says you 're irresponsible because by converting Jews to Christianity you 're raising the price of pork .
She may deny that , my lord , because --
That 's what made him crazy . I regret not observing him more closely before I told you to do that . I thought he was just toying with you and meant to ruin your reputation . Damn my suspicious thoughts ! It 's as common for us old people to assume we know more than we do as for young people to be too wild and crazy . Come on , let 's go see the king . We 've got to discuss this matter , which could cause more trouble if we keep it secret than if we discuss it openly .
Sir , the laws of Ephesus will be on my side , and you 'll be embarrassed . I 'm certain of it .
And those birds you hear -- twenty caged nightingales . Do you want to sleep ? We 'll have a couch made up that 's softer and more fragrant even than the bed of lustful Semiramis . Say you want to take a walk , and we 'll sprinkle the ground with flowers . Or do you want to go horseback riding ? Your horses will be adorned with harnesses decorated in gold and pearls . Do you like hawking ? You have hawks that can soar higher than the morning lark . Or do you want to hunt ? Your hounds will make the sky echo with their high-pitched voices .
You who are so skilled in cursing , stay awhile and teach me how to curse my enemies .
Here comes the man who rescued me , sir .
Come on , I 'll go warm up a nice glass of sherry for us . It 's too late to go to bed now . Come on , my friend , come on .
Do n't say that , Lysander . Do n't say that . Why do you care that he loves Hermia ? What does it matter ? Hermia still loves you , so be happy .
God save you , my sweet boy !
The English army is near , led by Malcolm , his uncle Siward , and the good Macduff . They burn for revenge . The wrongs they have suffered would make dead men rise up and fight .
Yes , Lepidus .
Oh , shut up . Your words are idiotic .
Ill will never prompted anything well said .
I do n't know , except they are busy with some phony guarantee . So go and put your stamp on the girl . Go to the church : take the priest , the clerk , and some reasonably honest witnesses . If this is n't what you 've been hoping for , I have no more to say except that you ought to say goodbye to Bianca forever .
great princes of France and Burgundy , vying for the hand of my youngest Cordelia , have been at my court a long time and will soon have their answers . --My daughters , since I 'm about to give up my throne and the worries that go along with it , tell me which one of you loves me most , so that I can give my largest gift to the one who deserves it most . --Goneril , my oldest daughter , you speak first .
You speak like a very thankful and respectful boy , and may God bless you .
Can I have a word with you privately ?
If I seemed rude , it 's because of how badly I was treated when I got here . Who I am and what I want are a secret . You 're the only one I can share the secret with . It 's sacred , just for you . It 's not for anyone else to hear .
Oh , really ? Well , when Nature makes a person beautiful , ca n't Fortune make her fall into a fire , thereby making her ugly after all ? And even though Nature has given us the wit to have this argument , has n't Fortune sent this fool here to stop us ?
Hello , sir .
We will wait on you , your majesty .
Well , of course .
Yes , Caliban , her son .
No , that 's not true . But if I were smart enough to get out of this forest , I 'd be wise enough to satisfy myself .
Do you know the way to Dover ?
We 'll have another bear-baiting just to make him angry , and we 'll mock him till he 's black and blue . Wo n't we , Sir Andrew ?
Here 's something good .
My youngest son , whom I care about the most , turned eighteen and started to wonder about his twin brother . He asked me to let him take his attendant - who had also lost a brother , though he had kept his brother 's
Good morning , my noble lord .
He says your daughter 's not feeling well , my lord .
So can I. In fact , every imprisoned man holds in his own hand the tool to free himself .
Be like you used to be , and see like you used to see . This bud belongs to Diana , the goddess of virginity , and it has the power to undo the effects of Cupid 's flower . Now , Titania , wake up , my sweet queen .
They 've fired a greeting shot , so at least it 's a friendly ship .
I 'll find him right away , sir , and carry out the business as well as I can . Then I 'll let you know what 's happening .
" D' elbow , " madam .
My lord , I 'm just as noble and rich as he is . I love Hermia more than he does . My prospects are as good as his , if not better . And beautiful Hermia loves me -- which is more important than all those other things I 'm bragging about . Why should n't I be able to marry her ? Demetrius -- and I 'll say this to his face -- courted Nedar 's daughter , Helena , and made her fall in love with him . That sweet lady , Helena , loves devoutly . She adores this horrible and unfaithful man .
Here 's something from me too . If one knight gives --
Monday ! Ha , ha ! Well , Wednesday is too soon . Let it be on Thursday . On Thursday , tell her , she 'll be married to this noble earl . Will you be ready ? Do you think it 's a good idea to rush ? We should n't have too big a celebration -- we can invite a friend or two . Listen , because Tybalt was just killed , people might think that we do n't care about his memory as our relative if we have too grand a party . Therefore we 'll have about half a dozen friends to the wedding , and that 's it . What do you think about Thursday ?
Now , noble Buckingham , seal this alliance by embracing my wife 's friends , and make me happy in your unity .
Good morning , cousin Shallow .
Sir Walter Herbert , a renowned soldier ; Sir Gilbert Talbot ; Sir William Stanley ; Oxford ; the highly feared Pembroke ; Sir James Blunt ; Rice ap Thomas , with a valiant crew ; and many other famous and powerful noblemen . They plan to head straight to London , assuming they do n't encounter any resistance on the way .
No , my good lord , do n't be afraid of dreams .
I did n't dare take it past " the circumstantial lie , " and he did n't dare go to the " direct lie , " so we compared the lengths of our swords and then ended the fight .
If I ca n't persuade your niece to marry me , I 'm going to be in some serious financial trouble .
Oh , the devil is quite a gentleman . He 's called Modo and Mahu .
Can we do that ? You know it 's the feast of Lupercal .
I think he must have turned into an animal , because I ca n't find him anywhere looking like a man .
This , Douglas ? No. I know this man : he was a brave knight , by the name of Blunt ; he is disguised as the King .
If you care to hunt rabbits , your greyhounds are as swift as healthy stags and faster than young deer .
God keep me so . --Heralds , go with him . Bring me an exact report of the number of dead on both sides . Tell that fellow over there to come here .
Jesus bless us !
Oh my dear brother ! This was a bad start to the night . Let 's pray that we never come into conflict like that again . Let 's not , Brutus .
Your Majesty did n't present yourself as the king . You represented yourself as just a common man . Consider the time of night , what you were wearing , and how ordinary you looked . Anything your Highness suffered in that disguise , I beg you to see it as your own fault and not mine , because if you 'd been what I took you for , there would have been no offense . Therefore , I beg your Highness , pardon me .
Let 's think about this , and consider what time and what method will be most appropriate . If our plan were to fail , and people found out about it , it would be better never to have tried it . We should have a backup ready in case the first plan does n't work . Let me think . We 'll place bets on you and Hamlet -- that 's it ! When the two of you have gotten all sweaty and hot -- keep him jumping around a lot for that purpose --Hamlet will ask for something to drink . I 'll have a cup ready for him . If by chance he
Revenge ! Let 's go after them ! Seek ! Burn ! Set fire ! Kill ! Slay ! Leave no traitors alive !
What if I do what you say ? How would I satisfy the Duke then ? His messengers are waiting here to take me to him immediately , on pressing state business .
Go on ahead . I 'll talk with this good man .
I 'll be crippled forever ! Help ! Murder ! murder !
My noble lord --
If they were n't my betters , they 'd be pretty wretched indeed .
I was . But I felt more pain from exile than I would have from being dead here at home . You , Richard , owe me a husband and a son . The rest of you owe me a kingdom . And all of you owe me allegiance . The sorrow that I feel actually belongs to you , and the high life you enjoy actually belongs to me . You stole it from me .
The worst thing imaginable has happened . A murderer has broken into God 's temple and stolen the life out of it .
Well , then , I thank you , though I 'm such a beggar that even my thanks are not worth much . Did someone tell you to visit me ? Or was it just your whim , on your own initiative ? Come on , tell me the truth .
We 're arguing about a hoop of gold , a cheap little ring she gave me , that had a little inscription on it , nothing more than a knife - maker 's attempt at poetry . It said , " Love me and do n't leave me . "
Give me my sword . Who 's there ?
Even if I had sworn never to marry , I would n't trust myself to keep that promise if Hero would marry me .
Good morning , cousin Warwick , good morning .
Have you heard anything to the contrary ?
I 'm going to make sure I stay on your good side , lady .
Spirit , did you carry out the storm just as I ordered ?
And how was that one settled ?
Signor Antonio , you 've often insulted my money and my business practices in the Rialto . I have always just shrugged and put up with it because Jews are good at suffering . You called me a heathen , a dirty dog , and you spit on my Jewish clothes . And all because I use my own money to make a profit . And now it looks like you need my help . All right then . You come to me saying , " Shylock , we need money . " You say that ! -- even though you spat on my beard and kicked me like you 'd kick a stray mutt out your front door . And now you 're asking for money . What can I tell you ? Should n't I say , " Does a dog have money ? Is it possible for a mutt to lend three thousand ducats ? " Or should I bend down low , and in a humble and submissive voice say :
Why do you hide these things ? Why do you keep these talents behind a curtain ? Are they likely to get dusty ? Why do n't you go off to church dancing one way , and come home dancing another way ? If I had your talents , I 'd be dancing a jig every time I walked down the street . I would n't even pee without dancing a waltz . What are you thinking ? Is this the kind of world where we hide our accomplishments ? You 're a born dancer . Look how shapely your legs are .
What role did you play ?
The fire is ready . So go on , tell me the news .
If it pleases your Majesty , let his neck pay the price , if there is any martial law in the world .
Our enemies fight as if they 're trying not to hurt us .
So much for my hopes ! Well , I 'll go in and join the others . All I can hope for now is a share of the feast .
Please Margaret , help me write this poem for Beatrice .
I did , my lord .
I 'll show you how to forget , or else I 'll die owing you that lesson .
My master 's man . Strato , where 's your master ?
In this recent storm . These lords seem so astonished that they 've lost their use of reason and can hardly believe what they see with their own eyes . --But whatever the reason for your losing your senses , you can know for sure that I 'm Prospero , that same duke who was kicked out of Milan and landed on this same island where you landed , and became the lord of it . No more of this story now , for it takes days to tell , not just a chat over breakfast or during this first meeting of ours .
I want to measure the extent of your love , to see how far it stretches .
What , are you hurt ?
My ear must pull it out .
You wo n't find any cause for anxiety , even if you look for one . So , may the gods protect you and change the hearts of the Romans so that they turn and give you their support . We 'll leave you here .
what do you know , you are Trinculo ! How did you end up as this monster 's dung ? Does he crap Trinculos ?
How 's the night going , boy ?
If you went ahead and exposed your true face , Hell itself would n't be dark enough to keep you from being found and stopped .
Can I justifiably and in good conscience make this claim ?
Quiet ! If you say one more word , I 'll punish you , maybe even hate you . You 're defending an impostor ? Be quiet . You think he 's special , since you 've only ever seen him and Caliban . Foolish girl , in the eyes of most people this man 's a Caliban , and compared to him , they 're angels .
No , I 'm telling you , it 's very cold , with a northerly wind .
Oh , Jephthah , judge of ancient Israel , what a treasure you had !
You will feel the loss , but the man you weep for will feel nothing .
Nightingale , melodiously Sing our sweet lullaby . Lulla , lulla , lullaby , lulla , lulla , lullaby . Let no harm Or spell or charm Come near our lovely lady . Say good night with a lullaby .
Jobs are hard to come by . I ca n't pull a cart or eat dried oats like a horse . If it 's work for a man , I 'll do it .
With crisscrossed laces ?
Yes , and you spent better blood than his or your own .
Come on , you rogue . Quit joking . Tell me what you 've done with the money I entrusted to you .
Shake off your sleepiness . Come on . We 'll go visit Caliban , my slave who always talks to us so nastily .
Now be quiet . Juno and Ceres are whispering about something serious . There 's something else to be done . Be silent , or else my magic spell will be broken .
Her hips are as wide as she is tall . She 's round , like a globe . I could use her like a map to find out where countries are .
Then please , deliver this news like a human being who lives in this world .
Yes , but in the future the King will think so poorly of us that every little slight , every false accusation , every tiny , silly , frivolous thing will seem to him to be a revival of this rebellion . Even if we were as devoted to the King as martyrs are to their causes , he 'll regard us so skeptically that even the good things we do for him
So be it . Say what you 're here for .
Because nobody will notice he 's crazy . Everyone there is as crazy as he is .
I 'll have no halves . I 'll shoulder the whole bet
Why , would n't you ?
A wise man and a fool .
Well , enough of my whining then . That 's that ! I was getting carried away with fantasies I did n't deserve to have . But I should consider myself lucky . It 's much better to be destroyed by a noble enemy than by a cruel and heartless one . Listen to that , the clock 's scolding me for wasting my time loving you . Do n't worry , young man , I wo n't stalk you . And when you 're older and wiser and ready for marriage , your future wife will have a fine husband . There 's the way back home for you , due west .
You do n't ?
Now , I swear on my sword , I 'll kill all his uniforms ! I 'll murder every item of his clothing , one piece at a time , until I find the King himself .
I really think it was him .
Here comes my little bird .
Have you forgotten who I am ?
No , listen here , gravedigger sir --
I 'll go to Ireland . We 'll both be safer if we go separate ways . Wherever we go , men will smile at us while hiding daggers . Our closest relatives are the ones most likely to murder us .
My lord , I want your permission to go back to France , which I left to come to Denmark for your coronation . I confess , my thoughts are on France , now that my duty is done . Please , let me go .
Do you have any doubts , Antonio ?
Madam !
Live in the moment .
But are n't there some healthy men whom we have to make sick ?
Then you 're giving him the advantage .
What 's the matter ?
Are n't you Signior Benedick ?
This shepherd boy reminds me quite vividly of my daughter .
Portia , forgive me for this mistake that I had to make . All these friends are my witnesses , so I swear to you , I swear by your beautiful eyes , in which I see myself reflected --
Knock at the gate ? Oh , for Pete 's sake ! Did n't you clearly say " Knock , " " pound , " and " put your fists to work " ? Now you say it was " Knock at the gate " ?
I ca n't believe my sister would neglect her obligations in any way . If she restrained your rowdy knights , she had such a good reason that you ca n't blame her for it .
It means that Antony 's patron god , Hercules , is leaving him .
For God 's sake , sir , you 've been robbed . Get dressed . Your heart 's going to break . It 's like half your soul 's been ripped out . At this very minute an old black ram is having sex with your little white lamb . Wake up , wake up , ring a bell and wake up all the snoring citizens . If you wait too long you 'll have black grandchildren . Get up , I tell you !
Not yet , lieutenant . It 's not even ten o'clock . The general got rid of us early tonight so he could be with Desdemona . --I ca n't blame him . He has n't spent the night with her yet , and she 's beautiful enough to be Jove 's lover .
Well said ! Here 's to you !
In every battle , some people will always be killed , but judging from the men I see around us , our great victory did n't cost us very much .
A beautiful voice , I swear .
I was born to a higher position than I 've got now . But I 'm still fairly high - ranking . I 'm a gentleman .
Cain , who committed the first murder against his brother Abel , live in every heart . If every heart is a murderer 's heart , this violent play will end , and darkness will shroud the corpses .
Sir Topas !
Is n't it strange , Canidius , that he could cross the Ionian Sea so quickly from Tarentum and Brundusium and take Toryne? --Have you heard about this , sweet ?
Did you see how he laughed about sleeping with her ?
You shall advise me in everything having to do with Cleopatra .
What ?
Your wit is as quick as a greyhound 's jaws -- it catches whatever it goes after .
I mean when I wore it at your daughter 's wedding .
There are enough of us still alive in the field to overcome the English with our numbers if we could just restore some kind of order .
I saw the wound . I saw it with my own eyes . God bless that wound , here on his manly chest . A pitiful corpse , a bloody , pitiful corpse . Pale as ashes and drenched in blood . All the dried blood was so gory . I fainted when I saw it .
What is it , Mistress Quickly ? How 's your husband ? I think highly of him ; he 's an honest man .
Do you mean the king ?
Excellent in fencing , I mean , sir . His reputation in fencing is unrivaled .
No , you 'll see , four days will quickly turn into four nights . And since we dream at night , time passes quickly then . Finally the new moon , curved like a silver bow in the sky , will look down on our wedding celebration .
Caesar . So you 'd better not stay with him , Antony . Your guardian angel is noble , courageous , significant , and unmatched when Caesar 's not around . But when you are with him , your angel is weakened and easily frightened . That 's why there must be space between you .
Where will I find you when I 've finished it ?
Why , what have you done , sweet Beatrice ?
My master 's house .
I can see you do n't like this gentleman .
I heard someone say that 's what it means . Oh , these men , these men ! Do you honestly think -- tell me , Emilia -- there are women who 'd cheat on their husbands in such a disgusting manner ?
For my part , I did n't do it for the money , though I admit the money encouraged me to do what I was planning sooner . But I thank God that I failed in my scheme , and I rejoice in paying the penalty , as I beg God and you to pardon me .
Now my spells are all broken , And the only power I have is my own , Which is very weak . Now you all Have got the power to keep me prisoner here , Or send me off to Naples . Please do n't Keep me here on this desert island With your magic spells . Release me So I can return to my dukedom With your help . The gentle wind You blow with your applause Will fill my ship 's sails . Without applause , My plan to please you has failed . Now I have no spirits to enslave , No magic to cast spells , And I 'll end up in despair Unless I 'm relieved by prayer , Which wins over God himself And absolves all sins . Just as you 'd like to have your sins forgiven , Indulge me , forgive me , and set me free .
I 'm glad to hear it .
Now I will have to send my humble proposal of peace to that young man . I 've done as I pleased with half the world , making and losing fortunes , but now I negotiate from a position of weakness . You knew how far you had conquered my spirit . You knew that my sword , weakened by my love for you , would obey that love no matter what .
The king is getting up .
Brother John Bates , is n't that dawn breaking over there ?
You 're asking me ! Noble people do n't answer to peasants !
She already has a face .
That 's the next thing on the agenda .
Coward ! You take everything lying down , you just turn the other cheek -- you ca n't even see the difference between being honored and being taken advantage of ! If we punish criminals before they have a chance to commit their crimes , you 're a fool to pity them . Why are n't you preparing for war ? The French have invaded our peaceful country . Your territory is at risk , and all you can do is sit around like a preachy fool and whine , " Ah , why is he doing that ? "
I 've tried , and many of our friends have tried to make him talk , but he keeps his thoughts to himself . He does n't want any friend but himself , and though I do n't know whether he 's a good friend to himself , he certainly keeps his own secrets . He 's like a flower bud that wo n't open itself up to the world because it 's been poisoned from within by parasites . If we could only find out why he 's sad , we 'd be as eager to help him as we were to learn the reason for his sadness .
The whole world is a stage , and all the men and women merely actors . They have their exits and their entrances , and in his lifetime a man will play many parts , his life separated into seven acts . In the first act he is an infant , whimpering and puking in his nurse 's arms . Then he 's the whining schoolboy , with a book bag and a bright , young face , creeping like a snail unwillingly to school . Then he becomes a lover , huffing and puffing like a furnace as he writes sad poems about his mistress 's eyebrows . In the fourth act , he 's a soldier , full of foreign curses , with a beard like a panther , eager to defend his honor and quick to fight .
I have a good eye , uncle . I can see what 's in broad daylight .
It 's my calling , Hal . It 's no sin for a man to follow his calling .
That 's right , she did .
Do you have a crane to lift me up again once I 'm down ? Damn , I would n't walk my fat self this far again for all the money in your father 's treasury . What are you doing horsing around with me like this ?
Yes , the leader of the team ; the one that gets you if you ca n't pay a debt ; the one who assumes people are always going to bed and says to them , " Have arrest . "
I 'm sorry , sir , but in this war I consider you a subordinate , not my equal .
You 're sharpening that knife not on your sole but on your soul , you cruel Jew . No metal -- not even the executioner 's axe -- could ever be half as sharp as your hatred . Ca n't any prayers reach your heart ?
What does the fool mean by that , I wonder ?
Shall I forget the wrongs you 've done to me so that I can be the mother of a king again ?
She took that ring from me . I wo n't take it back .
My word of honor , captain , there 's no such thing here ! For goodness sake ! Do you think I 'd say she 's not if she were ? For God 's sake , be quiet !
Speak in peace , Lord Westmoreland . What 's the reason you 've come here ?
Wait good Nurse . Within an hour , one of my men will come to you behind the abbey wall and give you a rope ladder . I 'll use the rope ladder to climb over the walls at night . Then I 'll meet Juliet joyfully and in secret . Goodbye . Be honest and helpful , and I 'll repay you for your efforts . Goodbye . Sing my praises to your mistress .
Why would you celebrate it ? What victory does he bring home ? What foreign lands has he conquered and captive foreigners chained to his chariot wheels ? You blockheads , you unfeeling men ! You hard hearts , you cruel men of Rome , did n't you know Pompey ? Many times you climbed up on walls and battlements , towers and windows -- even chimney tops -- with your babies in your arms , and sat there patiently all day waiting to see great Pompey ride through the streets of Rome . And when you caught a glimpse of his chariot , did n't you shout so loud that the river Tiber shook as it echoed ? And now you put on your best clothes ? And now you take a holiday ?
Unless your taunts can undo the signature on my contract , you 're just wearing out your lungs by speaking so loud . Be quiet , boy , or you 'll lose your mind . I stand here with the law on my side .
Oh , it 's all - natural , sir . Wind and rain ca n't wash it off .
To our horses , you gallant princes . Let 's mount straight away . All we have to do is look at that poor starving army , and our wonderful display of strength will eat away their souls , leaving them the mere husk of men . There is n't enough work out there to keep us all busy , and hardly enough blood in all their sickly veins put together to put a stain on each of our swords , which our French knights will take out and then put away again , with nothing to do . Let 's blow on them . The breath of our valor will send them sprawling . There 's no question , lords , but that those extra servants and peasants swarming uselessly around our battle formations would be sufficient to rid this field of such a good-for-nothing foe , while we ourselves stood at the base of this mountain idly looking on . But our honor would n't stand for that . What 's there to say ? Doing the very least will do the whole job . Let the trumpets sound the signal to mount up and march . Our advance will so dazzle the enemy that England will cower in fear and surrender .
The nephew of the old king of Norway , Fortinbras .
Let 's do that . Every minute we expect more ships to arrive .
I never talked with her in my life .
Are you my daughter ?
I will be brief because I 'm not going to live long enough to tell a boring story . Romeo , who lies there dead , was the husband of that Juliet . And she , who lies there dead , was that Romeo 's faithful wife . I married them ; their secret wedding day was the day Tybalt died . His untimely death caused the bridegroom to be banished from the city . Juliet was sad because Romeo was gone , not because of Tybalt 's death . To cure her sadness , you arranged a marriage for her with Count Paris . Then she came to me , and , looking wild , she asked me to devise a plan to get her out of this second marriage . She threatened to kill herself in my cell if I did n't help her . So I gave her a sleeping potion that I had mixed with my special skills . It worked as planned . She seemed to everyone to be dead .
What are you talking about , man ? Tonight is for celebrating ! The gentlemen are waiting .
He has , he has . We 'll get revenge !
Did my father hit one of my attendants for scolding his fool ?
Hey out there ! Emperor 's guards ! Guards , hey ! Come ! Your lord calls for you !
They say the horses ate each other .
Now let them dissect Regan and her hard heart . Is there any natural cause for hardening of the heart ? Sir , you can serve me as one of my hundred knights . But I do n't like your style of clothes . I 'm sure you 'll tell me they 're fabulous , but I think you should change them anyway .
They 've stopped . They want to talk .
Put this in any kind of liquid you want and drink it down . Even if you were as strong as twenty men , it would kill you immediately .
Why , to keep the eyes on the sides , so that you can see anything that you ca n't sniff out .
I 'm finished , then . Duke , please go ahead with your state business . I 'd rather adopt a child than have one of my own . --Come here , Moor . I 'm forced to give my blessing to this marriage . With all my heart , I give you that thing which , if you did n't already have it , I 'd try with all my heart to keep from you . Desdemona , I 'm glad you 're my only child , since if I had others I 'd keep them all locked up . You would have made me treat them like a tyrant . --I 'm done , my lord .
Go escort the lords of France and Burgundy , Gloucester .
Goddammit ! It makes me mad . Day and night , hour after hour , all the time , at work , at play , alone , in company , my top priority has always been to find her a husband . Now I 've provided a husband from a noble family , who is good - looking , young , well - educated . He 's full of good qualities . He 's the man of any girl 's dreams . But this wretched , whimpering fool , like a whining puppet , she looks at this good fortune and answers , " I wo n't get married . I ca n't fall in love . I 'm too young . Please , excuse me . " Well , if you wo n't get married , I 'll excuse you . Eat wherever you want , but you can no longer live under my roof . Consider that . Think about it . I 'm not in the habit of joking . Thursday is coming . Put your hand on your heart and listen to my advice . If you act like my daughter , I 'll marry you to my friend . If you do n't act like my daughter , you can beg , starve , and die in the streets . I swear on my soul , I will never take you back or do anything for you . Believe me . Think about it . I wo n't break this promise .
No , sir , he 's angry .
Take my advice . Do n't think about her .
Well , I will live until I die , that 's for sure , and when I ca n't live anymore , I 'll deal with it . That 's it . That 's really all I can say .
Well then , tomorrow night , or Tuesday morning . Or Tuesday noon or at night , or Wednesday morning . Please just name a time , but do n't wait more than three days . He 's very sorry . His mistake was hardly worth punishing him for in the first place -- though in wartime it is sometimes necessary to make examples out of even the best soldiers . So when should he come ? Tell me , Othello . I ca n't imagine you asking me for something and me telling you no or standing there muttering . Michael Cassio came with you when you were trying to win my love . Sometimes I 'd criticize you to him , and he 'd defend you . And now I have to make this big fuss about bringing him back ? I swear , I could do so much --
A gentleman .
Yes , right away .
The English are in the field , French lords .
Then he should go back where he came from so he does n't catch a cold .
There 's a palm that will predict a chaste life , if nothing else .
No , I 'm sure your Grace wo n't be able to persuade him to try a second round , even though you could n't dissuade him from trying the first .
Better , since your lordship was nice enough to ask .
We only drink toasts to my niece . I 'll drink to her as long as there 's a hole in my throat and booze in Illyria . Anyone who refuses to drink to my niece until his brain spins around like a merry-go-round is scum . But speak of the devil , here comes Sir Andrew Agueface .
Why are you standing there when people are calling you ? Take care of the customers inside !
I 'm sure I 'll feel guilty if I run away from this Jew , my master . The devil 's on my shoulder , tempting me . He 's saying , " Gobbo , " " Launcelot Gobbo , " " Good Launcelot , " or " Good Gobbo , " or " Good Launcelot Gobbo " -- " use your legs and run away . " But my conscience says , " No , Launcelot , calm down , do n't run away . " The devil 's urging me to leave . " Go away ! " he says . " Run away ! Be tough , " says the devil , " and run ! " But then my conscience , hanging around my heart , says very wisely to me , " My good friend Launcelot , you 're a good boy , the son of an honest man , " really , that should be the son of an honest woman , since my father cheated on my mother . Anyway , my conscience says , " Stay put . " " Go , " the devil says . " Do n't go , " says my conscience . " Conscience , " I say , " you give good advice . " " Devil , " I say , " you give good advice . " If I listened to my conscience , I 'd stay with the Jew my master , who 's a devil . But if I ran away from the Jew , I 'd be following the advice of the devil , who 's the very devil himself . Certainly the Jew is the devil incarnate , and my conscience is giving me a hard time by telling me to stay with the Jew . The devil 's advice is nicer . I 'll run , devil . Tell me to run , and I 'll run .
We 'll try what you suggest .
I 'm here , sir . How can I help you ?
I said she was .
I have no tongue to speak with , sir .
The Prince of Wales stepped forward , nephew , and challenged you to a one-on-one fight .
In that case I 'll call in others who can still speak .
Madam , I will .
Here comes your cousin Bassanio . And Gratiano and Lorenzo too . Goodbye , then . We 'll leave you to talk to them . They 're better company .
May the gods bless you .
Do you recognize the handwriting ?
Madam !
Unpunished !
I know who you are ; you are Signior Antonio .
I will . And I order you to obey me , in the name of the duke .
It 's true , my lord .
I wish you all the best . If I did n't have so many enemies in Orsino 's court , I 'd go join you there . But who cares . I 'm so crazy about you that danger does n't bother me . I 'll go anyway .
Francis !
Well , who is it ?
Cobweb .
He ca n't go in there because of the candle . It 's too hot .
Come , Gertrude . We 'll confer with our wisest friends and tell them what we 're going to do , and what terrible deed has been done already . Let 's hope slander -- a bullet that can travel halfway around the world and still hit its exact target -- spares us . Oh , we must go . I 'm full of confusion and despair .
What ? Had sex with me ?
A fool , a fool ! I met a fool in the forest , wearing motley . What a miserable world ! As sure as I eat to stay alive , I met a fool who was lying in the sun and complaining about his fortune . He spoke smartly , though he was a fool . " Good morning , fool , " I said . " No , sir , " he said , " do n't call me a fool until heaven has sent me my fool . "
You did n't sympathize with us when we became orphans ; we wo n't cry for you !
Not yet , cousin . Before I hear him , I want to decide some important issues that are on my mind concerning my throne and France .
No , sir . There are others with him .
God and your work be praised , victorious friends . The day is ours . The bloody dog is dead .
Now we 're talking ! Are we going to let old nags and pampered horses be compared with kings , and generals , and mythic heroes ? No ! Damn them to hell , and let the storms rage ! Should we fight over nothing ?
Oh my goodness ! Master Snare !
Oh my ! This sight of death is like a bell that warns me I 'm old and I 'll die soon .
Sir , he left his belongings and treasure .
For what ?
I have already fled from my true self . I 've told cowards to turn their backs on me and run . Friends , go . I 've decided on a plan that does n't require your assistance . Leave . My treasure 's in the harbor ; take it . Oh , I followed something I 'm ashamed to look at now ! Even my hair revolts . The white hairs blame the brown hairs for being irresponsible , and the brown ones blame the white ones for being spineless and foolish . Friends , go . I 'll give you letters of introduction to some friends of mine who will help you . Please , do n't be sad , and do n't tell me how reluctant you are . Take your cues from my own despair . Abandon the person that has abandoned himself . Go to the harbor immediately ! I 'll give you the title to that ship and its treasure . Just give me a moment , please -- only a moment . I 've relinquished my authority , so please --I 'll see you all before long .
Look , let 's stay here tonight . Nobody will hurt us . You see how kind everyone is to us , how they just hand us gold . I think this country is so kind that if it were n't for
The same to you , good sister . Where are you going ?
Oh , really ? Yes , really . Do you see something wrong with that ? Is n't he an honest man ?
I told my lover he did n't love me , but what did he say ? Sing willow , willow , willow . If I chase more women , you 'll sleep with more men --Okay , go away now . Good night . My eyes itch -- is that an omen I 'll be crying soon ?
That was your husband . Now look at this other one . Here is your present husband , like a mildewed ear of corn infecting the healthy one next to it . Do you have eyes ? How could you leave the lofty heights of this man here and descend as low as this one ? Ha ! Do you have eyes ? You cannot say you did it out of love , since at your age romantic passions have grown weak , and the heart obeys reason . But what reason could move you from this one to that one ? You must have some sense in your head , since you 're able to get around , but it seems to be paralyzed , since even if you were crazy you would know the difference between these two men . No one ever went so insane that they could n't get an easy choice like this one right . What devil was it that blindfolded you ? Eyes without feeling , feeling without sight , ears without hands or eyes , smell without anything else , the use of even one impaired sense would not permit such a mistake as yours . Oh , for shame , why are n't you blushing ? If evil can overtake even an old mother 's bones , then let it melt my own . It turns out it 's no longer shameful to act on impulse -- now that the old are doing so , and now that reason is a servant to desire .
No slander , Hal .
Listen to me patiently .
Right . If she were n't wise , she would n't be smart enough to behave badly . The wiser the woman , the wilder . If you close the doors on a woman 's wit , it 'll fly out the window . If you shut the windows , it will pour out the keyhole . If you stop up the keyhole , it will escape from the chimney along with the smoke .
Double , double toil and trouble , Fire burn , and cauldron bubble .
Yes , now I 'm in Arden , and that makes me the bigger fool . When I was at home , I was in a better place . But travelers have to be content .
I have no choice . Goodbye .
I said so , dear Katherine , and I 'm not ashamed to repeat it .
We wish you even more joy , and hope joy comes to you in your royal walks , at your table , and in your royal bed !
Delighted to stay ?
Is this true ?
Let 's act quickly .
Oh !
Once more I come to ask you , King Harry , if you 're ready to negotiate your ransom before your certain defeat . For assuredly , you are so near the abyss that you 're bound to be swallowed up . Moreover , out of mercy , the Constable urges you to remind your men to make their peace with God and repent , so that their souls may depart sweetly and peacefully from these fields where , poor wretches , their bodies will likely fall and fester .
Sir , pardon me for what I am about to say . I appreciate your frankness and your brevity . It 's true that your son Lucentio here loves my daughter , and she loves him -- or else they 're putting on quite an act . Therefore , provided that you assure me that you will treat your son as a father should and offer my daughter a sufficient dowry , we 'll call it a match and be done with it . Your son will have my consent to marry my daughter .
Now let the wind blow , waves swell , and ships sink ! The storm has begun and everything is at stake .
Do n't believe in this .
At the bridge he spoke as excellently as anyone I 've ever heard , I promise you . But that 's alright . What he just said to me -- it 's alright . I assure you , when the time comes --
This is a lowlife who basks in the reflection of the fading glory of the woman he works for . --Get out of my sight , scoundrel !
I thought it was the right thing to do .
Go away . I do n't want to see your face . Let me enjoy my privacy . Go away .
Nothing .
Quiet ! She 's singing .
If you still feel so affectionate toward her , then why not give her permission to cheat on you ? If it does n't bother you , it wo n't bother anyone else .
Until then , we 've said enough . Let 's go , my friends .
" John Falstaff , knight " -- he always throws that title around , every chance he gets . It 's like people who are related to the King : every time they get a tiny cut , they say , " Some of the King 's blood has been spilled . " Then someone pretends not to get it , and asks , " How do you mean ? " The answer comes faster than a beggar can whip out his cap : " I 'm the King 's poor relative . "
I 'm done . I swear .
Here .
You will , fatface ?
What has the governor of the town decided ? This is the final discussion I will grant . So submit to my mercy or , like men who revel in their own destruction , challenge me to do my worst . For , as I am a soldier , the name I think suits me best , once I begin my attack on Harfleur again , I will not leave the half - conquered town until she lies buried in her own ashes . The gates of mercy will be closed by then , and harsh and hard-hearted soldiers , who have tasted blood , will have free reign to commit whatever violence they want , mowing down your lovely young virgins and budding infants . What will it matter to me , since you will have brought it on yourselves , if sacrilegious war , dressed in red like Satan , his face blackened by smoke , should commit every form of savage destruction and ruin ? What will it matter to me if your innocent maidens are raped , since you will have asked for it ? What power can rein in promiscuous evil once it 's gotten rolling ? We might as well send orders to the whale to come ashore as try to restore order in soldiers carried away with their looting . Therefore , you men of Harfleur , take pity on your town and on your people while I still have control over my men , while the cool and moderate winds of mercy still have power to disperse the depraved , infected clouds of murder , plunder , and crazed soldiers defile your shrieking daughters with their foul hands , and your fathers dragged by their silver beards , their reverend heads dashed against the walls . Expect to see your naked babies skewered upon pikes while their
I do n't know . Is it the king ?
Let 's stay and hear Mark Antony .
I 'm thinking about how much cash I have on hand . If I remember correctly , I ca n't raise the entire three thousand ducats immediately . But so what ? Tubal , a wealthy Jew I know , will supply me with the cash . But wait a minute ! How many months do you want ? Oh , hello , how are you , signor ? We were just talking about you .
Shame on you , stubborn Queen ! Everything you do is attractive -- scolding , laughing , crying -- every emotion seems admirable when you express it . I wo n't see any messengers but yours . Tonight we 'll wander through the streets and observe the people . Come , my Queen . That 's what you wanted to do last night . Do n't talk to us .
Come on , let 's get going . You know what , my lord ? Those men you just mentioned will be beheaded today .
Nah , better save the questions for when you find her in your neighbor 's bed .
Then everyone get to their battalions . As soon as they respond , we 'll attack . May God be with us . Our cause is just !
Damn him , the arrogant fool !
Yes , it 's like my eyes are out of focus , and I 'm seeing everything double .
Did n't you hear ? It 's my ensign .
Gentleman , wear this for me . I 'm a woman who 's down on her luck , and I 'd give more if I could . Shall we go , cousin ?
Oh , sir , the problem goes far deeper than you realize . Take up my mistress ' gown for his master 's use ! Oh , that 's disgusting !
Thank you , sir . You serve me well , and I 'll love you for it .
My reputation will be greater by the time we part . I 'll take all the flowers of honor from your helmet , and turn them into a garland for myself .
Oh , this day has turned into a disaster !
Oh , what a horrible day ! Why are you crying ? Because of me ? If you 've been ordered back to Venice because of my father , do n't blame me . You may have lost his respect , but so have I.
So now Sweno , the Norwegian king , wants a treaty . We told him we would n't even let him bury his men until he retreated to Saint Colme 's Inch and paid us ten thousand dollars .
Boy , come along with us .
It does n't make either of us happy , I know .
Things for the cook , sir . But I do n't know what they are .
You 've never thought of me like that , and you have no reason to .
And I think she 's at least thirty .
If you ever give away this ring or lose it , it means our love 's doomed , and I 'll have a right to be angry with you .
Lucentio ! Oh God , he 's murdered his master ! Restrain him ! I charge you in the Duke 's name . Oh , my son , my son ! Tell me , you monster , where is my son Lucentio ?
You truly did . My body can prove it because it felt the power of your anger .
I give you my obedience and my humble service , madam .
Yes , that 's for sure . Oh , it 's dreadful , dreadful , Iago !
Her curses have made my hair stand on end .
He did n't say anything , he 's reading . So there 's a rift between Othello and Cassio ?
Amen to that , Gonzalo .
It 's happened like this twice before , always at this exact time . He stalks by us at our post like a warrior .
You ca n't take anything from me that I care less about -- except my life , except my life , except my life .
All right , bring him along .
Young Fortinbras , returning in triumph from Poland , is firing his guns to greet the English ambassadors .
Benedick , did you notice Signior Leonato 's daughter ?
Do you carry a pike ?
We 'll have revenge for it . Do n't worry about that . Stop crying . I 'll send a man to Mantua , where that exiled rogue is living . Our man will poison Romeo 's drink , and Romeo will join Tybalt in death . And then , I hope , you 'll be satisfied .
Was he an aristocrat ? With a coat of arms ?
Listen . The earth tells me to stop walking upon it , as it 's ashamed to carry me . Friends , come here . I 'm completely lost . I have a ship full of treasure . Take that . Divide it . Escape and make peace with Caesar .
Let 's immediately organize a council to discuss the best way to find out their secrets and the safest way to confront the threats we 're already faced with .
I saw Bassanio sail away , and Gratiano went with him . I 'm sure Lorenzo is n't on their ship .
You do him wrong to laugh at his corpse .
If they 'd put you in the stocks for asking that question , you would 've deserved it .
May God and his angels guard your sacred throne and grant that you dignify it for a long time .
I hope you 're an expert in your field .
I recognize him now . May God alter the circumstances that keep us apart !
Go after her , go .
With your permission , I 'll stand on the platform first and explain the reason for Caesar 's death .
Daughter , remember what I told you . If the Prince asks for your hand in marriage , you know what to tell him .
What is it ? Who 's calling me ?
I 'll get there . When we had told each other our entire stories and cried , and I 'd told him how I 'd ended up in in the forest -- well , he brought me to the duke , who gave me fresh clothing and hospitality , and put me in my brother 's care . My brother immediately took me to his cave , where he took off his clothing and there on his arm was a wound where the lioness had attacked him , ripping off some of his flesh . The wound had been bleeding the entire time . So , now he fainted , and as he fainted , he called out , " Rosalind ! " Quickly , I resuscitated him and bound up his wound . After a brief time -- as he is a strong , brave man --
May God in His mercy forgive you . This is your sentence . You have conspired against us with a proclaimed enemy and accepted his money in exchange for killing us . In doing so , you would have sold your king to slaughter , his princes and lords to slavery , his subjects to oppression and abuse , and his whole kingdom to ruin . I seek no revenge for myself , but so dearly do I hold the safety of my kingdom , which you sought to destroy , that you must be punished according to her laws . So go to your deaths , poor miserable wretches , the pain of which may merciful God give you the strength to endure . And may you truly regret your terrible crimes . Take them away .
I thought her teeth might be like the white cliffs , but they 're dark and stained . So I guess it 's her chin , which is separated from her forehead by all the sweat on her face .
Romeo , are you going to your father 's for lunch ? Let 's go there .
What would you like ? Gentlemanly manners have more sway around here than force does .
Peaseblossom .
What is this spirit that looks like the son of a king and wears a crown on his young head ?
Mother , mother , mother !
I loved Ophelia . Forty thousand brothers , if you added all their love together , could n't match mine . What are you going to do for her ?
Come on , niece , I 'm sure you love him .
Gentlemen !
Antony , we do n't yet know what kind of blows you can inflict . But your words are as sweet as honey -- you 've stolen from the bees and left them with nothing .
Is it because of him that you envy me ? You must be kidding ! And now I see that you 've been joking all the while . Please , Kate , untie my hands .
Go then , goodbye . Put a lot of cash together .
When I ran into this holy man , those men you mentioned did come to mind , in fact . Are you headed to the Tower ?
Go ahead , but I wo n't listen .
Just a second , sir . --Ralph , make sure everything 's okay in the Pomegranate Room !
Your Highness could be merciful but still punish .
Yes , certainly . Unless I am mistaken , Signior Baptista may remember me from the Pegasus in Genoa , where we both stayed twenty years ago .
We do n't think so , my lord .
joy except my love for you , and I find that only your majesty 's love makes me happy .
Speaking the very truth of high praise , I can honestly say that I find him to possess a soul of such great importance , and so rare and unique in every respect , that -- to speak the absolute truth -- he can find an equal only when he gazes into a mirror . Anyone else is just a pale copy of him .
Get off the field , my lord . I 'll find you another horse .
Good heavens , man , give them more than that ! If you pay everyone what they deserve , would anyone ever escape a whipping ? Treat them with honor and dignity . The less they deserve , the more your generosity is worth . Lead them inside .
I do n't know about that , but I saw a handkerchief like that today . I 'm sure it belongs to your wife , and I saw Cassio use it to wipe his beard .
Young man , it was very rude of you to show him the letter I wrote you .
As often as it 's replayed , our group will be hailed as the men who gave their country liberty .
Where 's France ?
And yet I still regret the anger that drove me to kill them .
You mean " paragon . " A " paramour " is something bad .
Yes , ma'am . Petruchio runs it . There he teaches piles of tricks for taming a shrew and her tongue .
Well , sir , the gown is not for me .
What , are you afraid ?
It 's been reported that Sir Thomas Lovell and Lord Marquess Dorset have assembled an army in Yorkshire , my lord . But I bring your Grace this comfort : a storm has dispersed the navy from Brittany . And Richmond , who is in Yorkshiree , sent a boat to shore to ask the men on the banks if they were on his side , yes or no . They said they were with Buckingham . Richmond did n't trust them . He hoisted sail again and sailed back to Brittany .
Hostess , I forgive you . Go get breakfast ready ; love your husband ; tend to your servants ; cherish your guests . You 'll find me a perfectly reasonable man . See ? I 'm calm , as always . Now please , get going !
Did you hear this , Gonzalo ?
How much money 's in my wallet ?
the way trainers do with young hawks that flutter and flap and will not obey . She had no food today and will have none . Last night she got no sleep , and she wo n't get any tonight . Just as I did with the meat , I 'll make up some problem with the way the bed is made , and throw the pillow one way and the cushion the other , and the blanket over here and the sheets over there . And through all the shouting and fuss , I 'll swear that it 's all out of love for her . The end result will be that she 'll sit up all night . And if she starts to drop off , I 'll rant and yell until I wake her up . This is how to kill a wife with kindness . And this way I 'll cure her wild and willful nature . If anyone here knows a better way to tame a shrew , speak up , please . It would be much appreciated .
Lepidus is red in the face .
All right then , confess and live .
Silence , boy !
I 'll give you a noble right now , and I 'll give you liquor , too , and friendship and brotherhood . I 'll live for Nym , and Nym will live for me . Is that fair ? For I 'll be selling provisions to the troops , and there 'll be profits to go around . Give me your hand .
He 'll do whatever Hastings does .
It 's true , and he asked me to beg you both to attend .
What dangers are you trying to lead me into , Cassius , that you want me to look inside myself for something that 's not there ?
I swear I am . Get me some ink , paper , and a candle . I 'll write a letter and you 'll take it to my lady . You 'll get a bigger reward than you ever got delivering a letter before .
He will be fooled into thinking he is greater than fate , he will mock death , and he will think he is above wisdom , grace , and fear . As you all know , overconfidence is man 's greatest enemy .
We 'll do it .
Bad times ?
What , you 're not a whore ?
Forgive me , Signior Gremio , but I 'm anxious to get things moving .
These sudden joys have sudden endings . They burn up in victory like fire and gunpowder . When they meet , as in a kiss , they explode . Too much honey is delicious , but it makes you sick to your stomach . Therefore , love each other in moderation . That is the key to long-lasting love . Too fast is as bad as too slow .
No , I 'm sure it has , Volumnius . You see how the world goes , Volumnius . Our enemies have driven us to the edge of the grave .
Who 's shouting ?
Were you thinking of spending the night here ?
Kind gods , heal the wounds that he 's wrongly suffered ! Restore the sanity of this father whose children have driven him mad and changed him into a child again !
We 're looking at the unluckiest man who ever lived .
She was a widow previously , madam .
I hope so .
Just a second , sir ! Wait here a moment , my lord .
It wo n't be that important . But never mind . Take me to Antony .
I 'll do the same . But wait --do n't go just yet , Signior Gremio . I know we 've never exactly been allies , but it might be in both our interests , if you think about it , to put our heads together about one particular thing . That is , if we ever want to return to being rivals for Bianca 's love .
I loved this man so much it makes me weep . I took him to be the plainest , most harmless Christian on earth . He was the book in which I recorded all of my most secret thoughts . He was so slick in covering over his plans that if it had n't been for his love affair with Shore 's wife , I would never have suspected him .
What else did you hear him say ?
Find out where he is , who 's with him , and what he 's doing . Do n't tell him I sent you . If he 's sad , tell him I 'm dancing . If he 's happy , say that I 've suddenly taken sick . Hurry , and come back .
You scolded him in private ?
I do not know dat .
Damn it , who 's there ?
Where is that knocking coming from ? What 's happening to me , that I 'm frightened of every noise ? Whose hands are these ? Ha ! They 're plucking out my eyes . Will all the water in the ocean wash this blood from my hands ? No , instead my hands will stain the seas scarlet , turning the green waters red .
Greetings , sir .
Here 's my hand , and my heart . And now goodbye . I 'll see you again in half an hour .
My king , the Guildfords in Kent have armed themselves , and every hour new associates flock to their aid , and their army increases .
I can see in your eyes there 's been some good news . What , does your wife say you can come home ? I wish she 'd never let you come . Do n't let her say I kept you . I have no power over you . You belong to her .
Denmark 's a prison .
Regarding the Dauphin , you can speak to me . What 's the message from the English king ?
Hello , sir . I just saw your father the Lord Gloucester and notified him that the Duke of Cornwall and his wife Regan will stay with him here tonight .
Report back to him fast and tell him what has happened . This is now a Rome in mourning , a dangerous Rome . It 's not safe enough for Octavius yet . Hurry away and tell him so . No , wait , stay a minute . Do n't go back until I 've carried the corpse into the marketplace . There I 'll use my speech to test what the people think of these bloody men 's cruel action . You 'll report back to young Octavius how they respond . Help me here .
Damn ! Wo n't they rob us ?
So is my horse , Octavius , and for that reason I give him all the hay he wants . But my horse is a creature that I teach to fight -- to turn , to stop , to run in a straight line . I govern the motion of his body . And in some ways , Lepidus is just like that . He has to be taught and trained and told to go forward . He 's an empty man , who pays attention to fashions and tastes that other men took up and got tired of long ago . Do n't think about Lepidus except as a means to an end . And now , Octavius , listen to more important things . Brutus and Cassius are raising armies . We have to raise our own immediately . So , we should combine forces and organize our allies , pull together our friends , and stretch our resources as far as they 'll go .
I think you 're right , sir .
Well then .
Go walk the path that you will never return from . Dumb , honest Clarence . I love you so much that I 'll send your soul to heaven very soon -- if heaven will accept anything from me , that is . But who 's coming ? The newly released Hastings ?
And I for Rosalind .
She is not sick , my lord , but she is troubled with endless visions that keep her from sleeping .
Is that a good idea , do you think ?
Oh , do n't swear ! Keep a little bit of honesty , even if you 're afraid .
You should go now , ensign . This is going to get out of control in a minute .
Cassius , calm down . We know each other well , and you can speak your grievances quietly . Let 's not argue here in front of both our armies , which ought to see nothing but love between us . Order them to move back . Then , in my tent , you can elaborate on your complaints , and I 'll listen .
It 's now late at night , and actions must accommodate bodily needs , which we 'll satisfy with only a short rest . That 's all there is to say .
Well , congratulations . You 've tamed a terrible shrew .
One of you go call the Jew into court here .
married to death , he sealed a testament of love that even ended in nobility . The fineness of the moment moved me to tears . I tried to hold them back , but wept like a mother .
This lantern represents the horned moon --
Please , educate me .
When beggars die there are no comets in the sky . The heavens only announce the deaths of princes .
He 'll find it again , no matter how much it stinks .
God bless you . Who greets me so early in the morning ? Young man , something 's wrong if you 're getting out of bed this early . Every old man has worries , and worried men never get any sleep , but young men should n't have a care in the world . They should get to bed early and get plenty of sleep . Therefore , the fact that you 're awake this early tells me you 've been upset with some anxiety . If that 's not the case , then this must be the answer : You , Romeo , have not been to bed tonight .
Come here , man . I see that you are poor . Here are forty ducats . Let me have a shot of poison , something that works so fast that the person who takes it will die as fast as gunpowder exploding in a canon .
I made you de facto rulers of my kingdom on condition that I could keep a hundred knights of my own . Why should I now have to make do with only twenty - five ? Regan , is that what you said ?
Which one of you did this ?
How will you back me up -- by turning your back and running away ?
They killed my children too ?
Yes . Is n't it strange ?
Quiet ! Caesar 's talking .
Yes , ma'am .
How is she ?
Just mix me up with the forgotten dust , and give my body -- which gave you life -- to the worms . Fire my officers , undo my laws ; for now the time has come to jeer at authority . Henry the Fifth is crowned : up with foolishness ! Down with decorum ! Be gone , all you wise advisers ! Assemble lazy apes from every region , and make them the royal court of England ! Now , you neighboring countries , get rid of your scum . Do you have a criminal who swears , drinks , dances , parties all night , robs , murders , and commits the oldest sins in the newest ways ? Then be happy : that man wo n't trouble you any longer . England will paint over his guilt with gold . England will give him a position , honor , power . Because Henry the Fifth has removed the barriers to anarchy : he 's taken the restraining muzzle off the dog of misbehavior , and that wild dog will sink his teeth into the flesh of every decent person . Oh my poor kingdom , sick from this civil war ! When all my hard work could n't keep disorder at bay , what will you do when disorder becomes your caretaker ? Oh , you 'll be a wilderness again , and all the wolves who lived here once will once again be your only citizens .
I 'm telling you . I wo n't do anything underhanded .
On a night like this , Thisbe saw the lion 's shadow and ran away in fear .
That 's a good point . I spoke with a Frenchman yesterday who said that a Venetian ship loaded with treasure was wrecked in the English Channel . I thought about Antonio when he told me . I silently hoped it was n't his ship .
I sent for Cassio to come talk with you .
But I ca n't play a melody . I do n't know how .
Poor homeless creatures suffering this storm , wherever you are , how will you survive a night like this with no roof over your heads , no fat on your sides to keep you warm , and only rags for clothes ? When I was king I did n't do enough to help you . Powerful men , take your medicine by learning about hardship . Go out and feel what the impoverished feel . Then you can give them your extra wealth and make the world more fair .
Come on , sir . This is the place . Stand still . It 's so scary to look down ! It makes me dizzy . The crows flying down below look as small as ants . Halfway down the cliff there 's somebody clinging to the rock and gathering wild herbs -- a risky business ! He looks like a dot to me . The fishermen walking along the beach are as small as mice . That big ship over there looks no bigger
A man named Taurus , they say .
That 's not your fault ! He should imprison the person who named you , instead . Maybe the king is sending you to the Tower to have you renamed . But , really , what 's going on , Clarence ? Can you tell me ?
Oh , it was a monstrous roar , to make the earth tremble ! I 'm sure there was a herd of lions nearby .
Say welcome to all of our friends for me , sir , for in my heart they are all welcome .
No , noble mistress , I 'm as fresh as morning when you 're near me , even at night . I beg you to tell me your name so I can use it in my prayers .
He must be in a strange mood to go in for this fashion -- though from time to time he has been known to dress down .
Except the poor monster 's drunk . An awful monster !
Well , look , just to be nice I 'll help you out and give you some advice to boot . First tell me , though -- have you ever been to Pisa ?
Cassio 's not dead ? Then the wrong man is dead , and sweet revenge has gone wrong .
I know it like the back of my hand , every step of the way . Poor Tom has been scared out of his mind . Bless you , good man , and stay away from the devil . Five devils haunted Poor Tom at the same time : Obidicut , the devil of lust ; Hobbididence , the devil of mutes ; Mahu , the devil of stealing ; Modo , the devil of murder ; and Flibbertigibbet , the devil of mockery , who causes chambermaids to make silly faces . Bless you , master .
Oh , run to Scotland until these noblemen and their armies have skirmished against the king .
You 're my true and honorable wife , as dear to me as the blood that runs through my sad heart .
He had no patience . He was crazy to run away . Even if you 're not a traitor , you 're going to look like one if you run away .
Ned , come out of that airless room and help me laugh a bit .
Sit , kind sir ; I 'll be with you in a second . Very kind sir , please sit . Here 's to you ! What we lack in food , we make up for in drink . You must endure it ; good intentions are what count .
That 's Enobarbus ?
What 's the matter ? Who 's shouting ?
Who 's there ?
You are welcome , sir .
Do n't bother wishing you could leave this forest , because you 're going to stay here whether you want to or not . I 'm no ordinary fairy . I rule over the summer , and I love you . So come with me . I 'll give you fairies as servants , and they 'll bring you jewels from the depths of the ocean , and sing to you while you sleep on a bed of flowers . And I 'll turn you into a spirit like us , so you wo n't die as humans do . --Come here , Peaseblossom , Cobweb , Moth , and Mustardseed !
" And some have greatness thrust upon them . "
By our Lady , I think that 's true .
Sadness and despair !
Well , is it ? Is it ?
What do you say now ? Is n't it past two o'clock ? And I see a lot of Orlando here .
The Roman people are fed up with his arrogance already . They 'll abandon him completely when they hear this .
Go , you 're relieved of your duty . Thank you .
You seem a little depressed about this .
Well sir , here 's the thing . Those warrants could n't be served . And once more , sir , should we plant wheat at the field 's edges ?
Oh angels , protect us ! Whether you 're a good spirit or a cursed demon , whether you bring heavenly breezes or blasts of hell fire , whether your intentions are good or evil , you look so strange I want to talk to you . I 'll call you " Hamlet Senior , " " King , " " Father , " " royal Dane . " Answer me ! Do n't drive me crazy with curiosity , but tell me why your church - buried bones have burst out of their coffin , and why your tomb ,
If he wo n't stop when he 's told to , then he is n't one of the Prince 's subjects .
I never offended him at all . Recently , the king hit me because of a misunderstanding . This man took sides with the king and tripped me . When I was down on the ground he insulted me , and then started acting tough to seem courageous in front of the king . The king praised him , even though I had never offered any resistance at all . Now he pulled out his sword on me again , still riled up from our first encounter .
You violent , guilty man , wake up full of guilt and end your days in a bloody battle ! Think about Lord Hastings . Despair , and die ! Quiet untroubled soul , wake up ! Arm yourself , fight , and win for beautiful England 's sake !
The king and the prince are praying . Let 's go join them , since whatever happens to them happens to us too .
Come on , Kate . I want to hear your song , too .
Dear , listen to me : do n't trust any of Caesar 's men besides Proculeius .
From now on , my very gracious father , I will behave more like myself .
Give me a torch . I do n't want to dance . I feel sad , so let me be the one who carries the light .
You fat son of a whore , what 's the matter ?
You wear your wit next to you ?
He 's offered me a lot of affection lately .
And you have mercy on me too ! I never did anything wrong to you in my life . I never loved Cassio , except with the pure love that I feel for humankind . I never gave him any token of romantic love .
And let us swear to our resolution .
That light is not daylight , I know it . It 's some meteor coming out of the sun to light your way to Mantua . So stay for a while . You do n't have to go yet .
Well , then , put your sword away .
Your wife , you scoundrel ? Get away from the door .
Fine , sir . He heard you were coming to town . Here 's a letter for you .
on a leash , straining for the moment when you 'll be let loose . The hunt is on ! Follow your spirit , and as you charge cry , " God for Harry , England , and Saint George ! "
It is the best horse in Europe .
Listen up , you slave . Are you going to let us in ?
No , he 's an ordinary guy who 's got a gentleman for a son , since someone would have to be crazy to let his son become a gentleman before he 's achieved that distinction himself .
That 's good , if he 'll really do it . Have you told him all her faults , Hortensio ?
True , he has an excellent reputation .
What are you going to do ?
Drowned ? Oh , where ?
Ah , my poor princes ! Ah , my tender babes , my flowers who did n't even get a chance to bloom . If your gentle souls are still flying in the air and have not yet landed where they will remain forever , hover around me with your airy wings and hear your mother 's lament .
Not much . I 'm ready and waiting . --Give me your hand , Bassanio . Goodbye .
My father loved Sir Rowland as much as he loved his own soul , and the rest of the world shared my father 's opinion . If I had known this young man was his son , I would have tried harder to convince him not to fight .
I 'm sorry to have to say this --
Not my servant , but my friend . I 'll change that name for you . But what are you doing so far from Wittenberg , Horatio ? --Oh , Marcellus ?
Good day to you , Captain Fluellen .
Tell me where do our desires start , In the heart or in the head ? How are they created , how sustained ?
There 's no way this excellent plan wo n't work . And the armies of Scotland and York will join with Mortimer , right ?
These cowards manage to make fools of brave men .
Well , marriage is exactly what we have to discuss . Tell me , my daughter Juliet , what is your attitude about getting married ?
Iago , bring Desdemona here . You know where she is .
I do , and it sounds like you 're talking in your sleep . What did you say ? It 's weird for you to be dreaming with your eyes wide open -- standing , talking , moving , but sound asleep .
What exactly just happened ? The events of last night seem small and hard to see clearly , like far-off mountains that look like clouds in the distance .
What 's the news from Sicyon . Tell me .
How did you manage to lose your self-control like this , Michael ?
Do n't worry , my lord , I 'll be as eloquent as if the golden crown I 'm pleading for were for myself . Goodbye , my lord .
Margaret , run into the sitting room . You 'll find Beatrice there , talking to Claudio and the Prince . Whisper to her that Ursula and I are walking in the orchard and that we 're talking all about her . Tell her you heard us , and that she should sneak into the arbor where the crisscrossing branches overhead keep the honeysuckles out of the sun . She can hide there and eavesdrop on our conversation . This is your job . Do it well , and then leave us .
Here , here .
You wo n't be seeing anything . --Hold his chair still , men . --I 'm going to put my foot on his eyes .
Well , sir , it 's better to say little than to be tedious . Show him our orders and keep your mouth shut .
Why , is n't all this joking better than groaning about love ? Now you 're sociable . Now you 're Romeo . Now you are what you 've learned to be and what you are naturally . This love of yours was like a blithering idiot who runs up and down looking for a hole to hide his toy in .
world and the wild watery seas , gifted with intellectual sense and souls , greater than the fish and the birds -- are the masters of women and their lords . Therefore , you should obey their wishes .
My message is not for anyone else to hear , my lady . It 's only for your willing and receptive ear .
Speak .
Good morning , gentlemen . Put out your torches . The wolves have finished preying for the night , and look -- the gentle dawn is rising , dappling the sleepy eastern sky with spots of light .
years into the space of a few hours . To that end , consider me a sort of chorus , here to help tell the story . And , as the speaker of any prologue should , I ask you to hear our play courteously and to judge it kindly .
As moral as me ! Damn you !
And I 'll sing it . It goes like this : If it should come to pass That any man turns into an ass And leaves his wealth and ease Simply to please his stubborn will Ducdame , ducdame , ducdame . Here he will see Fools as stupid as he If he will only come to me .
And is " pig " not the same as " great , " may I ask ? The pig or the mighty or the huge or the magnanimous -- they all mean the same thing , with some variation .
It did , it did . Curse the day this happened , but it did .
I do n't believe it , Litio . It 's not possible that Bianca could prefer another man to me . I 've seen the way she behaves .
My dearest love , Duncan is coming here tonight .
Heaven help us ! What were those things ?
The meteors whizzing in the sky are so bright that I can read by them . " Brutus , you 're sleeping . Wake up and look at yourself . Is Rome going to ... etc. Speak , strike , fix the wrongs ! " " Brutus , you 're sleeping . Wake up . " I 've noticed many such calls to action left where I would find them . " Is Rome going to ... etc. " What does this mean ? Will Rome submit to one man 's power ? My ancestors drove Tarquin from the streets of Rome when he was pronounced a king . " Speak , strike , fix it ! " Is this asking me to speak and strike ? Oh , Rome , I promise you , if you 're meant to receive justice , you 'll receive it by my hand !
Why , that man is a total fraud and rascal . I remember him now . A pimp , a pickpocket .
My lord , we will do so .
Are you always so funny ?
My lord , I 've been so kicked around by the world , and I 'm so angry , that I do n't even care what I do .
Oh , if only the earth would offer me not just a seat for mourning but a grave . Then I would bury myself , not just rest my bones . Oh , who has any reason to mourn except us ?
Soon he finds Priam Failing in his battle against the Greeks . His old sword , Which Priam cannot wield anymore , lies where it fell . An unfair opponent , Pyrrhus rushes at Priam , and in his rage he misses ;
Fair enough . And on my side , I 'll guarantee that if I die before she does , she shall inherit all my land and the rent from any property I own . Let 's have explicit contracts drawn up to ensure that both sides keep their promises .
Oh , what a senseless , horrible act !
Justice wo n't save our souls . We pray for mercy , and this same prayer teaches us to show mercy to others as well . I 've told you this to make you give up this case . If you pursue it , this strict court of Venice will need to carry out the sentence against the merchant there .
When you are gentle , you shall have one , too , and not till then .
I heard Octavius say that Brutus and Cassius have ridden like madmen through the gates of Rome .
Oh no ! I see the downfall of my family . The tiger has seized the gentle deer : a tyrant has begun to attack the weak , innocent king . Welcome , destruction , blood , and massacre ! I can see how all this will end as clearly as if I was looking at a map .
Yes , and much more so . But I was born that high . Like an eagle , which builds its nest at the top of a high tree , I play in the wind and am not afraid to look at the sun .
She 'll say she was at the neighbor 's looking for you . You 'll never find her without an answer unless you find her without a tongue . A woman who does n't know how to make her own indiscretions look like her husband 's fault is hardly a woman . And she 's hardly fit to be a mother -- her child will turn out to be a fool .
Have you seen my lord ?
Indeed , sir , find something better to do and get lost for a while .
How bloody the sun looks as it peers over that massive hill . The day looks pale -- it must be sick to see the sun in such a mood .
No , to the Whitefriars monastery . Wait for me there .
I 'll tell you . Besides belonging to myself , I belong to a woman . A woman who says she owns me , who wo n't leave me alone , and who wants me .
Two hundred ducats .
I 'm not afraid of dead uncles .
That 's your most dignified course of action . When confronted with the choice between a prudent action and a risky one , a wise man should dare to do only what he can practically accomplish -- if he follows this course , he will never be subjected to unpredictable chance . Allow me to pay my respects by kissing your hand .
I 'll come to you , your Lordship .
What do you mean by " carriages " ?
My sister would be much more offended to have her trusted messenger abused and assaulted just for carrying out her orders . --Put his legs in the stocks .
Yes , sir , I have .
No , my lord .
No ; he hit me very clearly and I felt his punches perfectly well . They were so dreadful , I could barely stand up under them .
No , no , no . Not at all . I had no idea you were there .
I 'm burning up with shame ! Can this be true ? Do people criticize me this much for being proud and scornful ? Then I 'll say goodbye to my contempt and my pride in being unmarried ! No good is spoken of such a person as me behind her back . Benedick , keep on loving me and I will return your love , like a wild hawk being tamed by her handler . I 'll be kind to you from now on , and if you really do love me , that kindness will encourage you to seal our love with a wedding band . People say that you deserve my love , and I believe it -- not just because they 've said so .
My name is Decretus . I served Mark Antony , who was the commander most worthy of my services . While he was alive , I lived only to serve him and oppose his enemies . If you accept my service , I 'll serve you the same way . If not , you can kill me .
Do something about it , then . You have the power to fix it . Why would Titania want to argue with her Oberon ? All I 'm asking for is to have that little human boy as part of my crew .
I assure you , there are some excellent military operations being carried out at the bridge .
He had been , sir , for four days before I left . And on the day I left , his doctors were extremely concerned .
Mount up our horses ! Bring my horse , lackey ! Ha !
You 've often started to tell me who I am , but then suddenly stopped , leaving me asking questions that never get answered , telling me , " Wait . Not yet . "
Yes , my lord .
When he could n't what ?
I 'm my own spokesman . What do you have to say to me ?
Yes , you 're right . It would be bad if she knew about Benedick 's love and teased him about it .
My dear beautiful lady , whatever happens to Michael Cassio , he 'll always be your humble servant .
Do I ask you to follow me ? Do I speak to you kindly ? Do n't I tell you in the clearest terms that I do not and cannot love you ?
Damn those men shouting down there ! They 're louder than the storm or us sailors .
He 's made me a little sore , I 'll admit . But since the gibe glanced off me , ten to one it hit you both straight on .
How strange that they all got so sleepy !
Begging your pardon , I 'll continue what I was saying . You must also take into account that we 've gotten as much from our friends as they can give . Our regiments are full to the brim ; our cause is ready . The enemy gets larger each day . We , now at our largest , can only decrease . There 's a tidal movement in men 's affairs . Seizing the highest tide leads on to fortune . If high tide is let to pass , all the rest of the voyage of their lives will be marked by difficulty and misery . It 's on such a high tide that we 're now floating , and we must take the current when it is offered , or lose our campaign .
I was engaged to both of them . All three of us will marry now in death .
Listen , I 'm going home tomorrow , Sir Toby . Your niece is refusing to see anyone , and even if she saw me , ten to one she 'd want nothing to do with me . That duke who lives nearby is courting her .
Sir , pardon my imperfect eyes , which have been so blinded by the sun that everything I look at appears green . Now I can see that you 're an elderly gentleman . Do forgive me for my crazy error .
Good evening , Casca . Did you accompany Caesar home ? Why are you breathless , and why are you staring like that ?
Before I learn how to love , I 'll learn how to follow orders .
O , this evil wind that spreads nothing but misery . O , my cursed womb -- it 's a deathbed , really , since Richard came out of it . It has hatched a cockatrice , whose gaze kills whatever it lands on .
I hope you get what you desire !
That 's the question , so answer it .
I 'd rather wither away than give up my virginity to someone I do n't love .
Who , me , my lord ? No , not for all the world .
Not tonight , Iago . I 'm not much of a drinker . I wish there was less social pressure to drink .
I did , sir , but it did n't answer me . It raised its head once as if it was about to speak , but just then the rooster started crowing , and the ghost vanished from sight .
Our men have all broken ranks .
We 'll just have to stop him from seeing ever again . Out , vile jelly , pop out of your eye sockets !
The moon sets at twelve , right ?
Double , double toil and trouble , Fire burn and cauldron bubble .
And she is very smart .
Please excuse me , Master Robert Shallow .
Do n't just swear by it ; put your hand to some use that will prove you love me .
Who is her mother ?
What if she wo n't kiss me ?
But the wind created by his sword is enough to make The weakened old man fall . Just then the city of Ilium , As if feeling this fatal blow to its ruler , Collapses in flames , and the crash Captures Pyrrhus 's attention . His sword , Which was falling onto Priam 's white-haired head Seemed to hang in the air . Pyrrhus stood there like a man in a painting , Doing nothing . But just as a raging thunderstorm Is often interrupted by a moment 's silence , And then soon after the region is split apart by dreadful thunderclaps , In the same way , after Pyrrhus paused , His newly awakened fury set him to work again . When the Cyclopses were making unbreakable armor For the god of war , their hammers never fell So mercilessly as Pyrrhus 's bloody sword Now falls on Priam . Get out of here , Lady Luck , you whore ! All you gods Should come together to rob her of her powers , Break all the spokes on her wheel of fortune , And send it rolling down the hills of heaven Into the depths of hell .
If any service I 've done you deserves a favor , get up from your stool and speak with me .
Please , sir --
Just to the Tower --I 'm guessing , for the same reason you are : to salute the noble princes who are staying there .
I have the authority to dismiss this court , unless Bellario comes today . He 's a legal expert I sent for to act as judge and help settle this matter .
The Sheriff and the officers are at the door . They 've come to search the place . Should I let them in ?
Has she told Benedick how she feels ?
How 's my nephew doing , noble lord of York ?
He had some of it . Let him pay .
I wo n't hide unless all the mist from my heartsick groans envelopes me like fog and conceals me from people 's searching eyes .
If love plays rough with you , play rough with love . If you prick love when it pricks you , you 'll beat love down . Give me a mask to put my face in . A mask to put over my other mask . What do I care if some curious person sees my flaws ? Let this mask , with its black eyebrows , blush for me .
Spoken like a brave man who respects his reputation . Shall we get to work ?
It 's this servantlike mentality that 's keeping you unmarried .
Then there must be no lovers in the forest , either , because they 're as good as a clock , marking the lazy foot of time with a sigh every minute and a groan every hour .
Why did you leave me alone , sirs ?
How dare I ? How dare you , sir ? Oh , cruel gods ! Oh , clever villain ! A silk doublet , velvet hose , a scarlet cloak , and a high - brimmed hat ! Oh , I am destroyed , I am destroyed ! While I sat counting my pennies at home , my son and my servant have squandered all my money at the university .
I do n't even know . I found it in my room . It 's pretty . Someone is certainly looking for it , and I 'll have to give it back . So I 'd like it copied . Take it and do that for me , and leave me alone for a while .
Well , if this bottle earns you an angel , then keep it for your troubles . If you earn twenty angels , then keep them all ; I 'm good for it . Tell my lieutenant Peto to meet me at the city limit .
This story bodes more stormy weather . Fathers who wear rags Make their children neglect them . But fathers who are rich Make their children kind . Lady Luck is a fickle whore And never gives the poor a break . But despite all this , your daughters will give you a lot of money -- or do I mean pain?- -in the coming year .
Sir , you go in . And , madam , go with him . And you go too , Sir Paris . Everyone prepare to take this beautiful corpse to her grave . The heavens hang threateningly over you for some past sin . Do n't disturb the heavens any more by trying to go against heaven 's will .
He received Caesar 's letters , and he is coming . He told me to say to you -- Oh , Caesar ! --
No , no , Octavia , it 's not only that . That would be excusable -- that and a thousand other offenses like it . But Caesar has gone and waged a new war against Pompey . He made his will and read it in a public assembly . Roman politicians could gain popularity among the common people by writing a will that included bequests in their favor , such as sums of money , parkland , or orchards dedicated to their use . He made his will and read it in a public assembly . He hardly refers to me at all , though official decisions are supposed to be made jointly . When he ca n't avoid mentioning my services to the state , he minimizes them as much as possible . When situations arise when it would be natural to emphasize my due credit , he either ignores them or only pays me lip service .
Your answer ?
That 's good , Lion ! Shake it around like a cat with a mouse .
He means I 'll get fat .
Write down that they hope they serve God . Oh , and write " God " first -- for God forbid we put these criminals before God ! --Gentlemen , it 's already been proven that you are n't much better than lying criminals , and soon we 'll know almost for certain . How do you both plead ?
Caesar , I 'm telling you that Antony is dead .
If I 'm not mistaken , that 's Portia 's voice .
I 'm dying to hear your life story , which must be a strange tale .
I love you with so much of my heart that none of it is left to protest with .
crowned by the golden sun , observed his heroic son and smiled to see him mangle the work of nature , French youth whose fathers and God had nurtured for twenty years , since they were babies . This king is a branch of that same victorious stock . So let us be wary both of his inborn might and of his destiny .
I know you well . You 're a hardworking villain who 'd do anything his evil mistress wanted him to .
If the Turkish fleet is n't protected in some harbor , their men must all be drowned . No ship could survive this storm .
Quiet , please . Pay her what you owe her , and undo the wrongdoings you 've done to her . You can do the first with money , and the second with a sincere apology .
And Shylock knew his daughter was ready to run away . It 's natural for children to leave their parents .
Oh , noise ? Then I 'll be quick . Oh , good , a knife ! My body will be your sheath . Rust inside my body and let me die .
Good morning , cousin .
What are you doing , Ophelia ?
I ca n't read them now . Oh , gentlemen , life is short . But if you spend that brief time shamefully , you are wasting your time : even if life lasted only an hour , it would still be too long . If we live , it will be in triumph over kings . If we die , it will be a glorious death , since princes will die with us . As for our consciences , our battle is fair : it 's right to bear arms when the cause is just .
Enough . It would 've been better for you not to have been born at all than to displease me as you did .
I do not know the French for " fer , " and " ferret , " and " firk . "
You 'd add your name to the list of the young ? You , who have age written all over you ? Do n't you have mucus in your eyes ? Dry skin ? Jaundice ? A white beard ? An
Get out , dog ! You 've driven me to my wit 's end . Did you kill him , then ? From now on I wo n't even consider you a human being . Oh , just tell the truth for once . tell the truth , if only for my sake . --Would you have even dared to look at him when he was awake ? And did you kill him while he was sleeping ? Oh , how brave of you ! A snake could do that as easily as you could . A snake did do it , because no snake ever had a more forked , lying tongue than you have .
And I love Hastings with all my heart .
Oh , Antonio , I 'm sorry I caused you so much trouble .
Thomas , the earl of Surrey , and he were moving from troop to troop around twilight cheering up the soldiers .
And I was just going to yours . You 've kept away from me for a week ? Seven days and seven nights ? A hundred and sixty-eight hours ? And lovers ' hours are a hundred and sixty times longer than normal ones ! What a tedious wait !
My name is Douglas , and I 'm haunting you in this battle because they tell me you are a king .
Hamlet , Lord Hamlet !
You just want one word with one of us ? Put it together with something else . Make it a word and a blow .
Then come with me and we 'll set it up . And , by the way , I should probably tell you : my father himself is coming any day to vouch for me in the matter of a dowry -- a marriage contract between me and the daughter of a fellow named Baptista . I 'll fill you in on the whole situation . Come , let 's go and get your costume .
The work we enjoy is not really work . This is the door .
I do n't want you to please me , I want you to sing . Come on , another stanza -- is that what you call 'em , " stanzas " ?
Maybe we can benefit from the same chaos that has defeated us . Let 's go offer up our lives en masse .
I have drawn my sword .
Now that 's a mission worthy of great men ! I 'm only sorry that his numbers are so few and those men he has sick and starving on the march . When he sees our army , I 'm sure his heart will sink with fear and he 'll offer us a large sum in exchange for avoiding battleof .
Goodbye , Falstaff . By speaking on your behalf as a prince , I 'll be speaking better of you than you deserve .
I 'll run away from you and hide in the bushes , and leave you to the mercy of wild animals .
Do n't tell me that you 've heard about this marriage , Friar , unless you can tell me how to prevent it . If you who are so wise ca n't help , please be kind enough to call my solution wise . And I 'll solve the problem now with this knife . God joined my heart to Romeo 's . You joined our hands . And before I -- who was married to Romeo by you -- am married to another man , I 'll kill myself . You are wise and you have so much experience . Give me some advice about the current situation . Or watch . Caught between these two difficulties , I 'll act like a judge with my bloody knife . I will truly and honorably resolve the situation that you ca n't fix , despite your experience and education . Do n't wait long to speak . I want to die if what you say is n't another solution .
I 'll go back inside and ask the lady for some kind of escort . I 'm not a fighter . I 've heard of men who pick fights with other people on purpose , just to see how brave they are . This man is probably like that .
Come on , let 's knock and go in . The minute we get in let 's all start dancing .
The Duke of Lancaster and Westmoreland . The King and Harry Monmouth will fight against the Welsh . I do n't know for sure who is in charge of the fight against the French .
One of the servants laughed in his sleep , and one cried , " Murder ! " and they woke each other up . I stood and listened to them , but then they said their prayers and went back to sleep .
Retreat further , my lord , retreat further . Mark Antony is in your tents , my lord . Therefore you must run , noble Cassius .
That 's right , Lord Bardolph . That 's what happened to young Hotspur at Shrewsbury .
This boy has fewer words than a parrot , but he 's actually a person ! All he does is run up and down stairs , and the only things he can say are the names of the items on your bill . I 'm not yet like Percy , the Hotspur of the North . He kills six or seven dozen Scotsmen before breakfast , washes his hands , and then says to his wife , " To hell with this boring life ! I need something to do ! " " Oh , my sweet Harry , " she says , " How many have you killed today ? " " Give my brown horse a dose of medicine , " he says . And then about an hour later , he answers her : " About fourteen . " Then he says , " That 's nothing , nothing . " Listen , bring in Falstaff . I 'll play Percy , and that damned fat slob will play his wife , Dame Mortimer . " Bottom 's up ! " as the drunk says . Bring in the meat , bring in blubber .
I would n't allow your enemies to say that , and I wo n't believe it from you . I know you 'd never skip school . What are you doing here in Elsinore ? I 'll teach you to drink hard by the time you leave .
A million goodbyes to you .
What 's this man 's reputation like here in the city ?
Stephano !
What ? Are you going to start eating worms and flies ?
Gaultree Forest , your grace .
Because , if you must know , she 's been chosen by Signior Gremio .
You always slip out of the argument like this . I know you from before .
My name is Mary , sir .
I 'll give you cramps for saying that -- horrible pains in your sides that will keep you from breathing . I 'll send goblins out at night to work their nasty deeds on you . You 'll be pricked all over , and it 'll sting like bees .
Out .
Why , his cuckold 's horns , of course -- the kind you men are always blaming on your wives . See , the snail already has its horns , which prevents nasty rumors from spreading about his wife 's infidelity .
Good afternoon , your royal Highness !
Now you sound like a man . Come on , let 's go see King Edward . The army is ready . All we have to do now is say goodbye to the king . Macbeth is ripe for the picking . We 'll be acting as God 's agents . Cheer up as much as you can . A new day will come at last .
He 's not your man . Alright , walk out into a field , and he 'll chase you . In that sense you can call him your " man . "
They 're ready , my lord .
Then is n't it just the right dish for a sweet goose ?
So , the man would talk half as much as Benedick and be half as serious as Don John --
Gouge out his eyes !
I 'm sorry that I delayed you , sir . But even though he denies it , I swear he got the necklace from me .
Where 's this so-called king ? Men , wait outside .
No , I 'm telling you , he refuses to hear anything about religion .
I did .
Be as lazy and neglectful as you like around him -- you and the other servants . I want it to become an issue . If he does n't like it , he can go live with my sister . I know she feels the same way about him that I do , and she 'll stand her ground . That useless old man still thinks he can wield all the powers he 's given away . I swear , old fools become like babies again . You ca n't just flatter them ; you also have to discipline them when you see that they 're misguided . Remember what I 've told you .
I hope we 've corrected that fault pretty well in our company , sir .
Here comes the Prince .
What 's this awful thing that everyone 's crying about ?
Make peace with God , for you must die , my lord .
You are shaking .
You 've served me faithfully . What else can I say ? Be happy , lords !
I sent you a letter while you were carousing in Alexandria . You put my letters in your pocket without reading them and then mocked my messenger out of the room .
As the saying goes , " Short summers often have an early spring . " This smarty-pants wo n't live long .
My Lord of Warwick and my brother Gloucester , follow Fluellen at a close distance . The glove which I have given him to wear may possibly win him a box on the ear . It belongs to the soldier I was just talking to . According to an agreement , I should wear it myself . Follow Fluellen , cousin Warwick , and if the soldier strikes him -- and I would think from his forthright manner that he 'll keep his word -- some mischief may arise as a result . I know Fluellen to be very conscious of his honor and quick to anger , hot as gunpowder and
A little before twelve , I think .
Please , if you can do it without taking advantage of the young man , buy the cottage , pasture , and flock for us , and we 'll pay you for it .
That 's enough .
She 's leaving . If you let her go this easily , Sir Andrew , you do n't deserve to ever use your sword again .
Swear .
When I was relaxing , she 'd pull me aside and ask to hear some part of a story she had missed . Her eyes would fill with tears at the bad things I went through in my younger years . When my stories were done , she 'd sigh and tell me how strangely wonderful and sad my life had been . She said she wished she had n't heard it , but she also wished there was a man like me for her . She thanked me and told me that if a friend of mine had a story like mine to tell , she 'd fall in love with him . I took the hint and spoke to her . She said she loved me for the dangers I 'd survived , and I loved her for feeling such strong emotions about me . That 's the only witchcraft I ever used . Here comes my wife now . She 'll confirm everything .
Then I 'm going to make you confess that you deliberately slandered me . And then I 'll know what to do next .
Tomorrow is the happy day , Audrey . We 'll be married tomorrow .
The other kings throughout the world all expect you to take the offensive , just like your lion - hearted forebears .
That will be never . Tune your instrument .
Then it refuses to shine . According to this almanac , it should have risen an hour ago . It 'll be a black day for somebody today . Ratcliffe !
As you were on land .
Yes , but the item was just gathering dust . This way , you 'll either make a profit by it or lose it on the high seas .
To hell with this idiot ! Why are you going crazy over these trashy clothes ? Leave them alone , and do the murder first . If he wakes up before we kill him , he 'll never stop punishing us .
Where are those bastards ? Where is the boy who 's supposed to help me get off my horse and take him to the stable ? Where is Nathaniel ? Where 's Gregory ? Where 's Philip ?
I 'll fetch him .
Saints do n't move , even when they grant prayers .
Let me tell you , it 's a great piece of work , and very -- funny . --Now , Peter Quince , call the names of the actors on the list . Men , gather around him .
Then do so , with all your heart .
It does n't make me feel any better when you call me lieutenant . I 'm dying to have that title back again .
Whore , your lover 's dead now , and you 'll be going to hell soon . I 'm coming , slut ! I 've shut the memory of your beautiful eyes out of my heart . You 've already stained our sheets with your lust ; now I 'll stain them with your whore 's blood .
That 's right . You 'd make a good fool .
I 'm sure you 've heard of me .
I 'm not insane , Sir Topas . I 'm telling you , this house is dark .
We 're ruined , ruined , ruined ! I ca n't watch any more . The Egyptian flagship , the Antoniad , followed by all sixty Egyptian ships , has turned and fled . It destroyed my eyes to look upon it .
Oh , come on . Where does he sleep ?
Well , time is the old judge that tries your kind of criminal . Time will tell what kind of a man you are . Goodbye .
Here . How can I help you , sir ?
I 'll put it on anyway . Send out more cavalry . Scour the whole country and hang anyone spreading fear . Give me my armor . How is my wife , doctor ?
Have you come to make confession to this father ?
Is it possible that any crime could be so valuable ?
It 's not lost , but what if it were ?
Listen but do n't speak to it .
Come on , you thin thing ; come on , you lean deer !
Look , when I swear that I love you , I cry , and when someone cries while he 's making a promise , he 's usually telling the truth . How can it seem like I 'm making fun of you , when my tears prove that I 'm sincere ?
Whoever wants to lie with me , Under the greenwood tree , And turn his merry song To follow the sweet bird 's singing , Come here , come here , come here . Here you will find No enemy Besides winter and rough weather .
You should ask me what time of day it is , instead . There 's no clock here in the forest .
What 's that word " ducdame " ?
Damn you , do n't mock and sneer at me . I 'm not a doddering old fool who brags about the things he did when he was young , and what he would do now if he were n't so old . Claudio , I 'm telling you right to your face that you have wronged me and my innocent child . I am forced to lay aside my old man 's respectability , and with my gray hairs and my aching body I challenge you to a duel . You have ruined my innocent child . Your slander has broken her heart , and now she lies buried with her ancestors in a tomb -- ancestors who had never been tainted by scandal until you caused one with your wickedness .
If you had n't shown up on cue , my lord , Lord Hastings was going to take your part --I mean , he was going to speak for you -- in the crowning of the king .
Ah , my lord , this prince is nothing like Edward ! He is not lolling in bed but on his knees in prayer . He 's not enjoying himself with a couple of prostitutes but studying with two learned priests . He 's not sleeping to fatten up his lazy body , but praying , to nourish his attentive soul . England would be lucky to have this virtuous prince as king . But I 'm afraid we 'll never get him to agree to be king .
piece of cheese will get him . --I challenge you to a match . I 'll even fight a giant . --Call out the infantry . --Oh , that arrow was well shot . Whoosh ! Right in the bull 's eye . ---What 's the password ?
Your reasons are good , but I have better reasons for doing the opposite . The people who live between here and Philippi are loyal to us only because we force them to be . We made them contribute to our efforts against their will . The enemy , marching past them , will add them to its numbers , then come at us refreshed , newly reinforced , and full of courage . Thus we must cut him off from this advantage . If we meet him at Philippi , these people will be at our backs .
Well , then , I hope he chokes on it ! I 'm not staying here to argue anymore .
That 's exactly right .
As the saying goes , " Those that are this wise when they 're this young wo n't live long . "
Now listen , he 's going to speak again .
What are you talking about ? " The life " ?
Of course you must comfort him ! What else ?
How did this all start ? Have we all become as savage as the Turks , treating each other as badly as they would have treated us ? For heaven 's sake , stop this savage brawl ! The next man who swings his sword must not care about his life , because the instant he strikes , he dies . Stop that alarm from ringing , it 's scaring the islanders . What 's the matter here , gentlemen?- -Honest Iago , you look upset . Speak up and tell me who started this . Answer me .
Put away your dagger . Be angry whenever you like , it 's all right with me . Do whatever you want , and I 'll say your insults are just a bad mood . Oh , Cassius , you 're partners with a quiet lamb . My anger is like a flint striking -- a brief spark , and then I 'm cold again .
Hey ! Help , help , help !
Maybe , if I were a big , fat holiday candle made of animal fat . But you 'd be better off saying that I 'm a wax candle : I keep " waxing " larger and larger .
Ariel , go order my goblin servants to make these fellows ' bones ache , give them muscle cramps all over , and give them more bruises than leopards have spots .
Beware of the devil . Obey your parents , keep your word , do n't swear , do n't sleep with another man 's wife , and do n't covet flashy clothes . Tom 's chilly .
My dear fool , because my brother died .
The real Duke of Milan and his far finer daughter could beat you in a heartbeat , if it were the right time . They 've fallen in love at first sight ! --Wonderful Ariel , I 'll set you free for doing such good work here . Could I have a word with you , sir ? I 'm afraid you 've made a mistake . Just a word .
Do you mean the same Sir John that 's coming here soon to recruit soldiers ?
Oh , she tears that letter into a thousand small pieces and berates herself for being so forward as to write a letter to a man she knows would mock her . " I compare him , " she says , " to myself , and I know that I would mock him if he wrote me such a letter . Yes , even though I love him , I would mock him . "
Yes , like that .
Yes , if a woman grows up to be a man .
Do , good old grandfather , and while you 're at it , tell us which way you 're traveling . If we 're all headed in the same direction , we 'd love your company .
Good morning , neighbor Gremio . Greetings , gentlemen .
Sounds good to us . Sit between us .
Let me keep weeping for such a great loss .
Then why do you weep so often , and beat your breast , and cry , " Oh Clarence , my unlucky son " ?
The old guy .
That 's true . Rest assured , my good Lord Marshal , if our reconciliation is sincere , then peace will be like a broken bone , which grows stronger for having once been broken .
Oh , my heart , my heart is rising into my throat ! Stay down , heart .
My lord , the King and Harry Prince of Wales are nearby . This letter will tell you the rest .
A woman who was beautiful but never proud , who could speak well but knew when to be quiet , who dressed well but was never overdressed , who had self-restraint even when she could get what she wanted , a woman who never took revenge , who overlooked it when people hurt her , who was too wise to do anything stupid , who could think without revealing her thoughts , and who could refrain from flirting with men in love with her , that kind of woman , if she ever existed , would --
Now , daughter Katherine ? Are you down in the dumps ?
Who 's with him ?
What will you give us ?
Yes , and be truthful , if you know what 's good for you .
Oh , what evil ! Lock the door .
It does n't look that way to me .
Have him come to me here , soldier .
Look out for the other guy , and do n't put yourself first , since everything happens randomly . Courage ! Courage , you fine old monster .
What is your crest ? A crest ?
Go ahead , then . I 'm locked in one of them . If you really love me , you 'll find me . --Nerissa and the rest of you , get away from him . Play some music while he chooses . Then if he loses , it 'll be his swan song , music before the end . And since swans need water to swim in , I 'll cry him a river when he loses . But on the other hand , he may win . What music should we play then ? If he wins , the music should be like the majestic trumpets that blare when subjects bow to a newly crowned monarch . It 's the sweet sounds at daybreak that the dreaming bridegroom hears on his wedding morning , calling him to the church .
Did n't they pass by you ?
Where 's your master ?
And then the " I " comes next .
Sit down and eat , and welcome to our table .
That 's good . " The muffled queen " is good .
My son Humphrey of Gloucester , where is your brother , Prince Hal ?
Yes , that 's why you have to die .
Let 's see , let 's see .
Burgundy , I valued her highly when I cared about her . But now her price has fallen . There she is , over there . If there 's anything you like about that worthless little thing , then go for it . She 's all yours . But what you see is what you get -- her only dowry is my disapproval . There she is .
What was the philosopher Pythagoras 's belief about wild birds ?
Oh sir , I accept . And I 'll be eternally grateful to you .
He has called for his horse , but I do n't know where he 's headed .
If you get what you want and you 're still not happy , you 've spent everything and gained nothing . It 's better to be the person who gets murdered than to be the killer and be tormented with anxiety .
Look for him , Titinius , while I go to meet the noble Brutus and force him to hear this news . I say " force " because Brutus would rather I stuck sharp blades and poisoned arrows in his ears than fill them with this .
Oh , you undisciplined boy ! Where are your manners ? It 's not right for a son to push past his father on his way to the grave .
And I will give you some more .
Run , master , run . For God 's sake , find a house to duck into . This looks like an abbey . Go in , or we 're done for .
Dear woman , you do n't know the rules of charity . When faced with bad , you 're supposed to turn it into good , and when subject to curses , you 're supposed to convert them into blessings .
I think someone 's coming from Venice . It 's Lodovico . He must be coming from the duke . Look , your wife is with him .
You do n't love me ? Really , you do n't ? Well , fine then ; do n't love me . And since you do n't love me , I wo n't love myself . You do n't love me ? Seriously , tell me if you 're joking or if you mean it .
I wish I were far away from Dunsinane . You could n't pay me to come back here .
He ate at my house , but that does n't make me nervous .
I 'm a friend , a friend who knows you well .
king -- which I ca n't put up with either as a ruler or as a person . This is your punishment : I 'll give you five days to gather together what you need to survive , then on the sixth day you 'll leave this kingdom that hates you . If the day after that you 're found in my kingdom , you die . Now get out of here ! I swear by Jupiter I 'll never revoke this punishment .
Douglas , go tell him to do that .
They say that he bequeaths this ability to heal to his royal descendants . Along with this strange power , he also has the gift of prophecy and various other abilities . All of these signs mark him as a man graced by God .
Oh , where have you led me , Egypt ? See how I hide my shame from you by turning around ? I look behind me to see my past , destroyed by dishonor .
And you have n't heard any news about her in your letters ?
Be gone , witch ! Come , Dromio , let 's go .
You wish me good health at a very good moment , because for some reason I 'm suddenly feeling ill .
My name is Proculeius .
If I can grab him once , if he just comes within my grasp -
Because I 'm drowning in my grief , I 'll grab onto the smallest piece of string dangled in front of me .
How goes the battle ?
Too light for a lout like you to catch -- though no lighter than I should be .
I 'm neither , my lord .
That 's not a job for a friend , my lord .
It would be wrong for me to think poorly of my grandmother . Good women sometimes give birth to bad sons .
If he offers to play the game and chooses the right box , but then you reject him , you 'll be disobeying your father 's last wishes .
Turn right at the next turn , but at the following turn , turn left . Oh , and then at the very next turn , do n't turn left or right , but turn down and around to the Jew 's house .
Sir , it 's the Moor .
Let the deer that 's been shot go off and weep , While the unharmed deer happily plays . For some must watch while other must sleep , That 's how the world goes . Could n't I get work as an actor in some acting company , and wear flowers on my shoes ?
Your Majesty , the duke of Buckingham has been captured -- that 's the best news . The fact that the earl of Richmond has landed in Milford with a mighty army is less good news , but it must be told .
Now , I swear by Saint Peter 's Church and Peter too , he will not make me a joyful bride there . This is a strange rush . How can I marry him , this husband , before he comes to court me ? Please , tell my father , madam , I wo n't marry yet . And , when I do marry , I swear , it will be Romeo , whom you know I hate , rather than Paris . That 's really news !
What 's going on , Borachio ?
Honestly , people think highly of me ; I hear their praises with my own ears . The worst thing they can say about me is that , as a younger brother , I 've had no inheritance from my family , and that I 'm a good fighter . And I ca n't help either of those things . By God , here comes Bardolph .
In the mud .
The man from Sicyon --
My leg 's been cut in two .
Do that . This little prank of hers is going to cost me .
I sent him there , sir , but his crimes deserved a worse punishment .
No , with Demetrius .
Gods and goddesses -- the whole congregation of them !
My lord , most humbly on bended knee I beg you to grant me the leading of the vanguard .
man 's cheeks . No , you monstrous hags , I 'll get revenge on you both that will make the whole world ... I will do such things --I do n't know what I 'll do exactly , but it 'll be devastating . You expect me to cry ? Well , I wo n't .
I give you my word , and I 'll keep it . And with that , I drink a toast to you .
My belongings are on the ship already . Good - bye . And , my dear sister , as long as the winds are blowing and ships are sailing , let me hear from you -- write .
The street cops handed her over to me , and she 'll be whipped through and through , I promise . She 's been involved in a couple of murders .
And I am nasty when it comes to you .
Mistress ! Run and save yourself . My master and his servant broke loose . They 've beaten the maids and tied up Doctor Pinch . Then they set fire to his beard and threw sewage to put out the flames . My master keeps telling the doctor to relax , while his servant cuts the doctor 's hair in a ridiculous fashion . If you do n't send some help , they 'll kill Doctor Pinch .
All right , then . The way he died , his secret funeral , no funeral rites or military display , no noble rites or formal ceremony -- shout out from heaven and earth that I must call the way he died into question .
This fellow will out - talk us all .
I have some marks from you on my head and some of my mistress 's marks on my body . But between the both of you , I do n't have a thousand marks . If I gave those marks back to you , chances are you would n't take them as patiently as I did .
And I 'll go find the duke ; his banquet is ready .
At that time , I did n't beg you to keep her here ; you wanted her here , and you felt guilty . I was too young at the time to appreciate her value , but now I know her . If she 's a traitor , why then , so am I. We have always slept together , woken up together , learned , played , and eaten together . Wherever we went , we went together and inseparable .
Good morning , Kate , for I hear that 's what you 're called .
Shall we get moving ? The king will already have left Southampton .
Thank you , master .
Please , let me borrow yours .
An excellent motion . Let 's go .
You serve Octavius Caesar , right ?
Please , tell us .
Honestly , sir , I 'd need to use words to explain why , and since words are so unreliable and false , I 'd rather avoid using them in a serious discussion .
No , not sure ones when we 're talking about something unsure .
I 'll do it , if you help me out .
Because he was crazy . He 'll recover his sanity there . Or if he does n't , it wo n't matter in England .
I 'm looking to see if you have cloven hooves like the devil . But that 's just a fairy tale . If you are a devil , I wo n't be able to kill you .
Why , you speak like an experienced and quiet watchman . Sleeping on the watch should n't be a problem ; just make sure that your weapons do n't get stolen . Also , you 're supposed to visit all the bars and tell anyone who 's drunk to go home and go to bed .
To kill him , Clitus . Look , he 's meditating on what to do .
Me neither . I 'll be right next to you .
Where is Polonius ?
Have some patience , please .
Is Claudio your enemy ?
I 'll try my luck then . I 'll either be the luckiest or the unluckiest man alive .
Pardon us , dear father .
I could n't stand to see you destroy your beauty ; you wo n't touch it as long as I 'm standing next to you . Just as everyone becomes cheerful from the sun , I 'm cheered up by your looks . They are my daylight , my life .
Why do you come here ?
Here , sir .
May I ask , sir , if it 's your intention to publicly humiliate me , showing me off like a whore in front of these suitors ?
Then I do n't need to kill Macduff . I have no reason to fear him . But even so , I 'll make doubly sure . I 'll guarantee my own fate by having you killed , Macduff . That way I can conquer my own fear and sleep easy at night .
Gentlemen , stand up . His highness is not well .
A witty if a cynical reply .
Miss Mary Chat - her - up - -
Henry the Fourth , or Fifth ?
I do n't know what the doctors say . All I know is that staying up late is staying up late .
I will . Biondello , go and tell your mistress to come to me .
He has , my lord .
Will you break faith with us like this ?
Statilius waved the torchlight at us , but he has n't come back . He 's been captured or killed .
Gentle Octavia , support the one that supports you . If I 'm defeated , I lose my reputation . If I lose my reputation , I lose myself . It would be better for you to have no husband than a husband who lacks honor . However , as you requested , you may go and try to negotiate with your brother . In the meantime , I 'll raise an army that will surpass his . Go as soon as possible , so your prayers may be answered the sooner .
Hello . Is Horatio here too ?
Why do you look at us and shake your head , and call us orphans , wretches , castaways , if our noble father is still alive ?
Noble , honorable gentlemen whom I serve : it 's true that I 've taken this man 's daughter from him and married her . But that 's my only offense . There 's nothing more . I 'm awkward in my speech and I 'm not a smooth talker . From the time I was seven years old until nine months ago I 've been fighting in battles . I do n't know much about the world apart from fighting . So I wo n't do myself much good by speaking in my own defense . But if you 'll let me , I 'll tell you the plain
If this dream vision is typical of what this island conjures up , then I 'll lose my son twice .
Signior Baptista , will you really be this cruel ? I regret that our goodwill should cause Bianca unhappiness .
Your features , God help us ! What features ?
You seem to be a good person , captain , and although people who look beautiful are often corrupt inside , I believe that you have a beautiful mind to go with your good looks and manners . Please - -and I 'll pay you plenty for this -- help me conceal my identity , and find me the right disguise so I can look the way I want . I want to be this Duke 's servant . You 'll introduce me to him as a eunuch . You wo n't be wasting your time , because I really can sing and talk to him about many different kinds of music , so he 'll be happy to have me in his service . Only time will tell what will happen after that -- just please keep quiet about what I 'm trying to do .
Oh , if only we had with us here ten thousand of those men back home in England who are n't working today .
Thank you for that joke . Here , I 'll give you some clothes to show my gratitude . As king of this country I like to reward wit when I hear it . " Stealing things the right way " is a great line . Here 's another jacket to say thanks .
True , noble prince .
There are no bushes or shrubs to protect me from the weather here . And there 's another storm brewing --I can hear it in the way the wind whistles . That huge black cloud over there looks like a filthy liquor jug that 's about to pour out its contents . It wo n't be able to help pouring rain down by the bucket - full .
But my hair looks good anyway , does n't it ?
It applies to you as much as to me , my lord .
Yeah , and he 's going to tame her .
I bet he 's coming to tell me about the actors ; just watch . You 're right , sir , that happened on Monday morning .
Yes , sweet Rosalind .
First , he said you had no right to him .
He 's not much to look at , but he 's very brave in battle . He really is the most skillful , bloodthirsty , and dangerous opponent you can find in Illyria . Do you want to go see him ? I 'll try to calm him down for you if I can .
I have n't seen anything .
Do n't get wound up , my good man .
I 'll do so . But look , Cassius , Caesar looks angry and everyone else looks as if they 've been scolded . Calphurnia 's face is pale , and Cicero 's eyes are as red and fiery as they get when senators are arguing with him at the Capitol .
Then do my lips now have the sin they took from yours ?
What 's your business ?
Well , his father can be whatever he wants to be . We 're talking about young Master Launcelot .
Do you know anyone who would kill someone for money ?
But he kept chattering so foolishly , talking about you in such insulting and despicable terms , that it was hard for me to restrain myself . But please tell me , sir , is your marriage secure ? Brabantio is an important man in this city , almost as powerful as the duke himself . He 'll try to annul your marriage , or else inflict whatever punishment the law and his power will allow him to .
Have a seat .
Dear God , thank you ! I 'll do everything she wants me to do .
Yes , he 's at home , but he ca n't be disturbed .
My lord ?
That 's for sure .
I will ? Excellent ! By God , I 'll be a great judge .
Yes , we are . He has invited me to have a calf 's head and a capon . He says if I do n't carve them up and serve them elegantly , he 'll declare I have no skills with a knife . Should I go get us a woodcock , too ?
What name , madam ?
Maybe ? No , most likely . You ca n't stay here any longer . Caesar has sent your dismissal , so pay attention , Antony . Where 's Fulvia 's summons -- excuse me , I should have said Caesar 's . Or do Fulvia and Caesar both beckon you back to Rome ? Call in the messengers and we 'll find out . As surely as I am the queen of Egypt , Antony , you 're blushing , which means you 're Caesar 's servant . Or that that bitch Fulvia still has the power to humiliate you . Call the messengers !
You 're giving poor advice , based on fear and cowardice .
We 'll do what you want us to , my lord .
Compared to your dress , it 's no better than a nightgown . The cloth is interwoven with gold thread , and slashes in the material show the fabric beneath . It is trimmed with silver lace and embroidered with pearls . It has one set of fitted sleeves and another ornamental pair that hangs open from the shoulders . The skirts are trimmed with a blue , metallic fabric . But for a fine , elegant , graceful , and excellent dress , yours is worth ten of those .
And you 're honest too . I wish I could split into as many men as there are servants here before me , and that all of you could merge into a single Antony , so I could give you the same good service you 've given me .
Like hell ! Nothing but cruel daughters could have degraded him like this . Is it fashionable now for neglected fathers to get so little pity ? That 's a fair punishment ! I 'm the one who fathered those bloodsucking daughters .
Come , Grey . Come , Vaughan . Let 's embrace and say goodbye until we meet again in heaven .
The games are done and Caesar is returning .
That brown horse will be my throne . I 'll mount him in a second . Oh , " Hope is my Comfort ! " Tell Butler to walk him out in the fields .
Right . What great courtesy that flattering dog paid me ! " The promise of his childhood has come true , " he said . " Gentle Harry Percy , " he called me , and " kind kinsman . " To hell with liars like him ! -- I 'm sorry . Uncle , go on . I 'm done .
He said she was unfaithful ?
Welcome , my lord . What , is n't my mother coming ?
Madam , a young Venetian man has arrived to tell us his master is about to arrive . This lord has sent gifts . Besides his nice polite greetings , his gifts are expensive . I have n't seen such a promising candidate for your love . This servant has arrived before his master the way a sweet spring day hints about a lush summer . But there 's never been an April day as promising as this .
It 'll be fine , for people who are n't any smarter than you are .
On the contrary , she 's a soft-spoken woman .
Off with his son George 's head !
Since you keep insisting , I 'll do as you say . Give me your gloves . I 'll wear them for your sake . And as a souvenir of your appreciation , I 'll take this ring from you . Do n't pull your hand back . I wo n't take anything more than this , and you ca n't refuse me this .
giving it back to him . That will tell you a lot . But in the meantime , just assume that I 'm paranoid -- as I 'm pretty sure I am -- and keep thinking she 's innocent , please .
My baby hawk ?
For God 's sake , my lord , they are lies . I 'll make you laugh by playing a young prince , I truly will .
Oh , she does n't say anything , sir . She just weeps and weeps . She falls on her bed and then starts to get up . Then she calls out Tybalt 's name and cries " Romeo , " and then she falls down again .
Is that true , sir ?
Your globe , covered with continents of sin ! What kind of life are you leading ?
No , please , lie down , good sirs , because I might change my mind . Look , Lucius , here 's the book I was searching for . I put it in the pocket of my nightgown .
What does this mean , my lord ?
A good reputation is the most valuable thing we have -- men and women alike . If you steal my money , you 're just stealing trash . It 's something , it 's nothing : it 's yours , it 's mine , and it 'll belong to thousands more . But if you steal my reputation , you 're robbing me of something that does n't make you richer , but makes me much poorer .
Do what he says , William .
It is . He 's a good man .
Welcome , dear madam . Every heart in Rome loves and pities you . Only the adulterous and abominable Antony abandons you , giving his power to a whore who turns that power against us .
Never , never . She always said she could n't stand Master Shallow .
The mayor is here at hand . Pretend you 're afraid , my lord , and do n't speak until you 're pleaded with . And make sure to carry a prayer book in your hand and to stand between two priests , okay ? Then I 'll have the grounds to build a holy sermon about why you should be king . But do n't be easily won over . Act like a virgin , always answering " No , " but taking it in the end .
Why are you so far from home ? How are you , my pretty Bianca ? To tell you the truth , I was just going to your house .
My toad , Paddock , calls me .
Just now .
Let me just ask her one question , and by your authority as her father , order her to answer truthfully .
Oh , help me , anyone who wants to live long !
Quiet , you fat - bellied jerk ! What a racket you 're making !
I 'm crying because of how sad you are .
What , he never made you laugh ?
But why did you tempt the heavens like that ? Mankind 's role is to fear and tremble when the almighty gods send warning signals .
Shut up , monster . --Madame tree , is this jacket for me ? Thank you kindly . The tree 's lost its jacket . --Now the jacket might lose its fur trim and become a bald jacket .
Sir , I invite your highness and your entourage to my little room , where you can sleep tonight . But for this evening -- part of it , at least --I 'll tell you tales to make the time pass quickly . I 'll narrate the story of my life , and give you all the details of what happened to me since I first came to this island . And in the morning I 'll take you to your ship and we 'll sail to Naples , where I hope to see this loving couple married . After that I 'll retire to Milan , where I 'll contemplate my death , which is soon to come .
with the states of war , peace , or both at once ; in this , Chief Justice , my new father , you will be my closest advisor . Once my coronation has been completed , I will , as I said before , summon all the nobility . And if God endorses my good intentions , no prince or lord will have reason to say that he wishes God would shorten my happy life by even a single day .
My heart will break , break .
Will you take me , my lady ?
Oh my , Oh my ! My child , my reason for living , wake up , look up , or I 'll die with you ! Help , help ! Call for help .
I will not confess it to you nor to anyone else , because there was no one else to witness her speech .
I like to pretend you are , because then it 's almost like actually talking to her .
This fake astonishment of yours is just like your other pranks . I 'm asking you to understand my point of view . Since you 're old and respected , you should be wise . But you 're keeping a hundred knights here who are so disorderly , vulgar , and obnoxious that our noble court is starting to look like a noisy cheap hotel . They 're such oversexed gluttons that I feel like we 're living in a pub or a whorehouse rather than a respectable palace . It 's shameful , and we have to make some changes right away . Please , as a favor to me -- and if you do n't do it for me , I 'll do it myself -- reduce the number of your knights a little . Keep the ones who are older , like you , and who act their age .
Lady Beatrice is angry with you . The gentleman she danced with told her you insulted her .
Complete joy makes one speechless ; if I were only a little happy , then I could say exactly how much . Lady , you are mine and I am yours . For you , I give myself away and I 'm ecstatic about the exchange .
I 'll give you protection from that word . I 'll give you the antidote for trouble : philosophy . Philosophy will comfort you even though you 've been banished .
That 's the strangest Pyramus I 've ever seen .
Good morning , your highness .
Who 's coming with her ?
Come Antony , let 's go . Traitors , we defy you . If you dare to fight today , come to the field . If not , come when you have the courage .
To tell you that you 'll see me at Philippi .
Yes , this is what love does . My sadness sits heavy in my chest , and you want to add your own sadness to mine so there 's even more . I have too much sadness already , and now you 're going to make me sadder by feeling sorry for you . Here 's what love is : a smoke made out of lovers ' sighs . When the smoke clears , love is a fire burning in your lover 's eyes . If you frustrate love , you get an ocean made out of lovers ' tears . What else is love ? It 's a wise form of madness . It 's a sweet lozenge that you choke on . Goodbye , cousin .
Really ? I would have thought that weariness would n't dare afflict someone as highly born as you .
Who is to blame for this : Antony or I ?
The brilliant Sir Topas !
Signior Baptista , I 'm glad to see you . --Sir , this is the gentleman I told you of . I hope you 'll be a good father to me now . Give me Bianca for my inheritance .
That would be quite a drain .
Come on , come on , where is your spear for the boar , man ? You 're afraid of the boar but you go around without your spear ?
Damn her , I 'm just describing her truthfully ! She 's so good at sewing , and a wonderful musician . Oh , she could sing a wild bear to sleep ! Oh , she 's so witty and creative !
" I 'm there for you , " as the pickpockets say !
Heavens , what 's the matter ?
Excellently , excellently . Anyone who unbuckles this before I want to take it off to rest will be sorry . --You 're fumbling , Eros . My Queen 's a better squire than you are . Hurry . --Oh , love , if you could only watch the battle today and see how expert I am at my craft .
My young master ! Oh , my gentle master ! My sweet master ! Oh , you living memory of old Sir Rowland ! What are you doing here ? Why are you so strong and good ? Why do people love you ? And why are you noble , strong , and brave ? Why would you be so foolish as to beat the moody duke 's favorite champion ? Your praise has beaten you home . Do n't you know , master , that some men 's best qualities do them in ? Yours are like that -- complete and utter traitors to you . Oh , what a world this is , when even what is beautiful in a man poisons him !
I got a letter that made some guesses about what was going on , without any proof . It came from a neutral party , not from someone opposed to you .
I think it 's Lord Westmoreland .
What 's the matter ?
What is it ?
Say " better . " Here comes one of my employer 's relatives .
Any obstacle or barrier to Claudio 's happiness will be like medicine to me . I hate him so much it makes me sick , and whoever can ruin his happiness will make me happy . How will you wreck this marriage ?
Stop advising me ; your words pass through my ears like water through a sieve . Do n't counsel me . Only someone who 's been wronged as I have can comfort me . Find a father who loved his child as overwhelmingly as I loved Hero and askhim to be patient . Compare the length and width of that man 's sadness against my own ; match up all the complaints and strong emotions that run through our bodies . If a man who has suffered as I have gave me advice the way you do -- smiling and stroking his beard , telling me to toss away my sorrow , giving speeches when he should be wailing with me , trying to heal my grief with little proverbs , spinning my head around with philosophy -- then I would take his advice and be patient . But that man does n't exist . You can try to comfort a man who feels a pain that you have never felt , but once you feel it too , your sober advice will also turn into passion . You ca n't treat madness with rules or bind up insanity with little silken threads or cure heartache with hot air or lighten agony with pat phrases .
It 's almost morning . I want to make you go , but I 'd only let you go as far as a spoiled child lets his pet bird go . He lets the bird hop a little from his hand and then yanks him back by a string .
Check the figures and then and pay it . Sir John , you will not be excused .
Benedictus ! Why do you suggest I use benedictus ? Is there some double meaning in that word , " benedictus " ?
How can we see Falstaff behave like his true self tonight , and yet not be detected ourselves ?
Yes , there is . Presently , our armies are already in motion , but putting our hope in them is as ridiculous as expecting that early spring buds will produce fruit : at that time of year , buds are more likely to be killed by frost than to bloom . When we want to put up a building , first we survey the land , and then we draw up a set of plans . Then we calculate the cost , and if we ca n't afford it , we revise the plans with fewer rooms , or we decide not to build at all . In the great task we 're attempting -- the taking down of one kingdom , and the building of another -- we have even more reason to evaluate the land and the plans . We must be certain that the foundation is sound , that the engineer is skilled . We must know precisely what we can afford , how ready and able we are , and we must consider the opposing arguments .
And something else strange happened . Duncan 's horses , which are beautiful and swift and the best of their breed , suddenly turned wild and broke out of their stalls . Refusing to be obedient as usual , they acted like they were at war with mankind .
I do n't know , mighty king . I can only guess .
She 's not interested in the duke . She does n't want to marry anyone of higher social rank than her , or anyone richer , older , or smarter . I 've heard her say that . So cheer up , there 's still hope for you , man .
It 's new to you .
And if those of us who are here should fail , we have reinforcements standing by . If they fail , they have reinforcements to back them up ,
Let 's make that the latest , but be sure to get there before then .
Truthfully , my name is Cinna .
Saint Francis , help me ! How often tonight have my old feet stumbled on gravestones ! Who 's there ?
Whose was it ?
Quarrelsome teacher ! This lady is the queen of heavenly harmony . Therefore allow me to claim her attention first , and after we have spent an hour on music you can have equal time for your lecture .
I do n't care if you love me or not , I like the cap and I 'll have it or I wo n't have any .
Whisper it in my ear . What is it ?
I have never seen a day that was so good and bad at the same time .
No , madam , no . I ca n't do this . I am bound by oath , so please forgive me .
Well , I 'm glad about this . This is good . Stand up .
Tie him to this chair . --You 'll see , criminal --
To whom ?
My good friends , I 'll see you tomorrow . Welcome to Elsinore .
What time tomorrow should I send a messenger to you ?
And leave you out ? Do n't move , dog . It 's your turn now . If heaven has any plagues beyond what I can drum up , let it wait until your sins are piled high and then hurl them down on you , you destroyer of a whole world of peace ! May conscience eat away at your soul constantly . May you suspect your true friends of being traitors and take the worst traitors as your closest friends . May you never sleep a wink except to dream of a hell full of ugly devils .
avoided a war , everyone 's still on edge , and you 're getting into private fights while you 're supposed to be on guard duty ? That 's unbelievably bad . Iago , who started it ?
I do n't know what the matter is , but he 's been arrested for it .
The Turkish navy will be broken up . The wind 's whipping up the waves so high you expect them to reach the clouds and splash against the stars in the sky . I 've never seen the waters so disturbed .
Carry me , good friends , to where Cleopatra is . It 's the last command I shall ever give you .
No , I do n't , sir .
He 'll take me through flood and field .
If you hang around me for two more years , you 'll forget the sound of your own voice . I wo n't ever let you speak .
I wish it were the horse brigade . Where can I recruit a talented crook ? Oh , if I only had a gifted thief , about twenty-two years old ! I 'm terribly lacking in help . Well , thank God for these rebels . The only people they bother are the good people . I like that . I honor and salute them .
Welcome , sir .
Speak , man , what 's the matter ?
Good - bye . Only God knows when we 'll meet again . There is a slight cold fear cutting through my veins . It almost freezes the heat of life . I 'll call them back here to comfort me . Nurse ! --Oh , what good would she do here ? In my desperate situation , I have to act alone .
Let 's follow them . It 's not right to obey his orders to let him go alone .
Oh , my son , what issue is that ?
You have been blessed with an excellent son , who will comfort you when the king is dead .
He did , very sincerely .
know myself ! I 'll agree with them and keep with it , whatever happens .
What do you want me to do with this ?
You 're mistaken , sir .
Pistol , I 'd be quiet if I were you .
Do n't be sad that this happened because of you , because Lady Luck 's been nicer to me than usual . Usually she makes the unhappy man live on after he loses his wealth , to spend his old age in poverty . But in my case she 's letting me avoid that misery . Send your honorable wife my greetings , and tell her how I died and how I loved you . Speak well of me after I 'm dead , and when the tale 's done , ask her to judge whether Bassanio had a friend . Be sad only at the fact that you 'll lose your friend -- your friend does n't regret that he paid your debt . If the Jew cuts deep enough , I 'll pay it instantly with all my heart .
Though our lives --
Yes , he did . And my father was here too .
That 's what I hear . I wish we 'd had this conversation sooner . Let 's get down to business -- and yet , before we get ready for war , let 's take care of that business we just discussed .
Why are you talking to me like this ? I do n't even know you .
Merchant of Syracuse , stop your begging : I 'm not inclined to bend our laws . The hatred and discord between our two cities is the result of the bitter offenses your duke has perpetrated against the merchants of Ephesus , our well-behaved countrymen . Lacking the money to ransom themselves , these merchants were executed under your duke 's harsh laws , and this has erased all looks of pity from my face . Ever since these deadly conflicts erupted between your violent countrymen and ours , both you Syracusians and we Ephesians have held serious councils and decided not to permit any travel between our two hostile towns . No - the law goes further : if anyone born in Ephesus is seen in Syracuse 's marketplaces or if anyone born in Syracuse comes to Ephesus , that man dies , and his possessions will be confiscated by the Duke , unless he can raise a thousand marks to pay the penalty and ransom himself . Your possessions , even if we calculate their worth very generously , do n't even add up to a hundred marks . Therefore , by law , you are condemned to die .
No man will come over me ! What a life that would be !
It 's gone . It wo n't answer now .
Oh - ho - ho , kid ! Come here .
Well , if I do n't keep up my rank --
That 's enough for one lesson . Let 's go to lunch .
Poison never came from such a sweet place .
That does n't matter much with everything else that 's going on . --Gentlemen , I will announce my plans . I 'll do everything I can to ease the king 's suffering . As for me , I 'm surrendering all my power over to him , giving him absolute authority for the rest of his life .
Wonderful ! I eat the air , like chameleons do . I 'm positively stuffed with air , I eat so much of it .
Are you mad ? Do you want me to cut your life short , you deceiving lowlife ? Away ! The smell of leek turns my stomach .
Judge for yourself .
Why , so can I , and so can any other man ! But will they come when you summon them ?
Dear sir , I pity the lady and wish -- more for her sake than my own -- that I was more able to help her . But I 'm a hired hand : I do n't profit from the flocks I tend . My master is a brutish man and does n't care much if he gets to heaven by deeds of hospitality or not . Besides , his cottage , his flocks , and his grazing rights are on sale now , and since he 's not there , there 's nothing to eat at our house . But let 's see what 's on hand . If I have anything to say about it , you will be most welcome there .
You feel love because you feel lust and you have no willpower . Come on , be a man . Drown yourself ? Drowning is for cats or blind puppies --do n't drown yourself ! I 've told you I 'm your friend , and I 'll stick by you .
When I said that , I was angry too .
Amen .
Not at all ! I 've got a plan that will fix everything . Write me a prologue that I can recite to the audience before the play starts . I 'll tell them that we wo n't hurt anyone with our swords , and that Pyramus is n't really dead . And to make it even clearer , we can tell them that I 'm playing Pyramus but I 'm not really Pyramus -- really , I 'm Bottom the weaver . That 'll keep them from being afraid .
My lord Sebastian , even though what you say is true , your way of saying it is tactless and comes at the wrong time . You 're rubbing salt in his wounds when you should be applying bandages .
I 'm bleeding , but you did n't kill me .
And it was about time too .
I 'll fight every one of these devils if I have to , one at a time .
Please , captain , leave the feast and let me speak with you privately .
To put it briefly , I work for the Jew , and I want , as my father will tell you --
Where is my lord , the duke of Gloucester ? I have sent for the strawberries .
Fair princess , you 've missed some good sport .
Why should you do this , you want to know ?
Well , when I cut the egg in half and eat the whites , the yolk will be in two parts like two golden crowns . When you cut your own crown and kingdom in half and gave away both parts , you were as foolish as the old man in the old story who carries his donkey on his back instead of letting the donkey carry him . You did n't have much brains inside the bald crown of your head when you gave away the gold crown of your kingdom . If I 'm telling the truth like a fool in saying all this , whip the first person who thinks I sound foolish . Fools have had a hard time this year . They 've been displaced by wise men who 've grown foolish . These men no longer know how to use their brains , And they do n't know how to behave except by foolishly imitating others .
Music ! Play the kind of music that puts people to sleep .
What 's that ? The daughter knows more than the father?- -Put away your sword , traitor . You make quite a show there , but you 're too scared to strike at me , since you feel too guilty . Get out of that position , because I can disarm you with my magic wand and make your sword drop .
Up to the breach , you dogs ! Go ! Get a move on , you scrotems !
Yes , it 's true . There 's magic in its fabric . A two - hundred - year - old witch sewed it while she was in a fevered trance . The silk came from sacred silkworms , and it was dyed with fluid made from embalmed virgins ' hearts .
Oh God ! Anyone who ever said I wished for you to die did me a terrible wrong . If I wanted that , I would have let Douglas continue his attack . That would have killed you faster than any dose of poison , and it would have saved me the trouble of treachery .
Why are you leaving , my angry friend ?
Sir John , I sent for you to come see me before you left for Shrewsbury .
My good lord , I can guess what they say .
What ?
In her room , lecturing her on the virtues of self - control . He rants and rails and swears and she , poor thing , does n't know how to stand or look or speak . She sits like a person who 's just woken up from a dream . Look out , he 's coming !
Congratulations , old pal , you 've won the bet .
Where , to York ? Tell him to come here .
You 've misled the young Prince .
I ca n't believe it .
It 's torture , not mercy . Heaven is here because Juliet lives here . Every cat and dog and little mouse , every unworthy animal that lives here can see her , but Romeo ca n't . Flies are healthier and more honorable and better suited for romance than Romeo . They can take hold of Juliet 's wonderful white hand and they can kiss her sweet lips . Even while she remains a pure virgin , she blushes when her lips touch each other because she thinks it 's a sin . But Romeo ca n't kiss her or hold her hand because he 's been banished . Flies can kiss her , but I must flee the city . Flies are like free men , but I have been banished . And yet you say that exile is not death ? Did you have no poison , no sharp knife , no weapon you could use to kill me quickly , nothing so disgraceful , except banishment ? Oh Friar , damned souls use the word banishment to describe hell . They howl about banishment . If you 're a member of a divine spiritual order of men who forgive sins , and you say you 're my friend , how do you have the heart to mangle me with the word banishment ?
No more than I do yours .
Yes , probably , because I 'm staying for lunch .
Fury , Fury ! --Get over there , Tyrant , there . Listen , listen !
It 's the best thing to do . Please come with me .
Sir , I wo n't eat . I wo n't drink . And do n't expect me to talk . I wo n't sleep either . I 'll destroy my body . Let Caesar do whatever he wants . You 'd better understand that I wo n't wait till I 'm chained up in your master 's court , and I wo n't let myself be scolded even once by dull Octavia . Shall I let them exhibit me to the shouting mobs of Rome ? I 'd rather die in a ditch in Egypt , and make it my gentle grave . I 'd rather lie in the Nile mud with flies laying their eggs in me , making me disgusting . I 'd rather be hung in chains from one of our pyramids !
Two or three men , my lord , who brought the message that Macduff has fled to England .
What does this mean ? Where is this all going ? Either I 'm insane or this is a dream . I hope these
Go ahead , take it . We 're stealing things the right way here .
She 's awake , sir . If she feels like coming over here , I 'll give her your message .
No , we 'll all go there to bring him .
So will I.
When you find out who started this disagreement , turn your anger upon them . Our faults ca n't be so alike that you would judge us similarly . Order supplies for your trip and choose your traveling companions . Spend as much as you like .
The king 's ship is safely in the harbor , hidden in that deep cove where you once summoned me to bring back dew from the stormy Bermuda islands .
clothes are so oily , they 'd burn through the longest winter . Even if she lives till the end of the world , she 'd keep burning an additional week .
Hey , did you notice that ?
Get away from me ! I 've got nothing to do with you .
O Lord , I could stay here all night listening to such good advice . Educated men are so impressive ! My lord , I 'll tell my lady you will come .
A good thing he did , by God . I 've heard Hamlet 's been spending a lot of time alone with you recently , and you 've made yourself quite available to him . If things are the way people tell me they are -- and they 're only telling me this to warn me -- then I have to say , you 're not conducting yourself with the self-restraint a daughter of mine should show . What 's going on between you two ? Tell me the truth .
He was the first person who ever had arms .
What part of her body is Ireland ?
We 've stopped for too long . Come , Westmoreland . We have work to do . For God 's sake , come on !
Let go of my hand . Here 's another purse , my friend . Inside it there 's a jewel that any poor man would be happy to have . I hope it 's only the beginning of future prosperity for you . Now go further away . Say goodbye to me , and let me hear your footsteps as you walk away .
Saturn and Venus must be aligned this year ! What do you think the astrological tables have to say about that ?
Orsino . I 've heard my father mention him . When I first heard about him , he was still a bachelor .
He got what he deserved . He mixed that poison himself . Please forgive me as I forgive you , Hamlet . You 're not responsible for my death and my father 's , and I 'm not responsible for yours .
Please , sir , be patient .
Henry the Fourth .
Bleed , bleed , poor country ! Great tyrant , go ahead and build yourself up , because good people are afraid to stand up to you . Enjoy everything you stole , because your title is safe ! Farewell , lord . I would n't be the villain you think I am even if I were offered all of Macbeth 's kingdom and the riches of the East too .
No problem , madam .
Here 's a token of my gratitude .
Yes , that 's the one .
In what sense , my lord ?
The ground is brown .
It 's a deal !
Wo n't heaven strike this Iago dead ? You absolute villain !
I 'm not surprised it scared you , my lord . It scares me just to hear you talk about it .
Did he tell Macduff to return to Scotland ?
You admit it , then ? Give me your hand .
I hope not .
Well , you 're not on target there . She refuses to be hit by Cupid 's arrow . She 's as clever as Diana , and shielded by the armor of chastity . She ca n't be touched by the weak and childish arrows of love . She wo n't listen to words of love , or let you look at her with loving eyes , or open her lap to receive gifts of gold . She 's rich in beauty , but she 's also poor , because when she dies her beauty will be destroyed with her .
Well , I do n't know where they got their poverty , but their bareness -- or their bare - bonedness -- well , they did n't get that from me .
No , villain , but you did n't work alone . For here are two noblemen -- the third has run away -- who helped you . Thank you , gentlemen , for my daughter 's death . Make a note of it on your long lists of righteous and worthy deeds . It was very brave of you .
We 've been looking for him everywhere .
Call them whatever you want , Monsieur Jaques .
Princes and counts ! Oh , of course , it was all so proper and ceremonious -- they gave a truly princely testimony . He 's a proper count , that Count Sugarplum , a sweet gentleman , for sure ! Oh , if only I were a man ! Or had a friend who would be a man for me ! But there are no real men left . Their manliness has melted into pretty curtsies and fancy manners , and their bravery is spent on making clever compliments . All this conversing has turned men into tongues -- and fancy ones , at that . The man who tells a lie and swears by it is now considered as brave as Hercules . I ca n't make myself a man by wishing I were , so as a woman I 'll die , from grieving .
That 's the worst news I 've heard so far .
You are too great a man to be slandered by me . Your instinct is correct ; your fears are true .
So find someone younger to love , or you wo n't be able to maintain your feelings . Women are like roses : the moment their beauty is in full bloom , it 's about to decay .
Now , my lord , what are we going to do if we find that Lord Hastings wo n't go along with our plans ?
If only we had divine inspiration , our play might rise to the highest level of imagination . If we had a stage as big as a kingdom , real kings and queens to act the part of kings and queens , and royalty to also witness the glorious spectacle , then it would be as it really was . Then valiant King Harry would resemble the god of war , as he did in life , and famine , sword , and fire would sit like dogs at his feet , waiting to be unleashed . But , ladies and gentlemen , since that 's not the case , you must forgive us plain , ordinary men who dare to act out so great a story on this humble stage . Can this theater seem to contain the sweeping fields of France ? Could we even squeeze into this little theater the helmets that looked so frightening at Agincourt ? Hardly ! But , pardon us , because just as a few strokes of a pen , a few zeros , can signify a huge number , we , who are zeros in this great story , can work on your imagination . Pretend that within the confines of this theater sit two great kingdoms divided by a narrow but perilous ocean . Let your thoughts make up for our imperfections . Divide each man into a thousand , and there you will have an imaginary army . Imagine , when we talk of horses , that you see them planting their proud hooves in the soft earth . Because now it is your thoughts that must dress up our kings and transport them from place to place . Your thoughts must leap over huge spans of time , turning the events of many
-- each actor arrived on his ass .
Who is that , my lord ?
They were n't looking to please you when they christened her .
We 'll hurry .
I wo n't have one any bigger . This is the fashion . Gentlewomen are wearing caps like this right now .
But what love could make my Lysander leave me ?
She will indite him to some dinner party .
Oh God of battles , bolster my soldiers ' courage . Do n't let them know fear . Rob them of the ability to count before the numbers against them overwhelm their courage . And just for today , Oh , Lord , just today do n't think of the crime my father committed in seizing the crown ! I 've transferred Richard 's body to a new grave and on it poured more tears of remorse than it has shed drops of blood . I 've hired five hundred almsmen to hold up their withered hands to heaven , praying for my pardon twice a day throughout the year . And I 've built two chapels where solemn priests sing continually for Richard 's soul . I will do more , though nothing I can do is any good since this remorse comes after the crime , asking for pardon .
Pay you ? What should I pay you ?
Othello 's having some kind of epileptic fit . This is his second fit like this . He had one yesterday .
Thrice noble lord , I beg you to excuse me for another night or two -- or at least until nightfall . Your doctors have expressly forbidden me to sleep with you , as there 's a risk that you might have a relapse . I hope this explanation will stand as my excuse .
Let him do his worst . The services I have done for the Venetian government will count for more than his complaints will . No one knows this yet -- and I do n't like to brag , but I come from a royal family , and I 'm as noble as the woman I 've married . And let me tell you , Iago , if I did n't love Desdemona as much as I do , I 'd never agree to get married and lose my freedom at all . But look at those lights . Who 's coming ?
So Benedick should conceal his emotions . Like a fire that gets covered up , Benedick should smother his love and waste away . It would be better to die that way than to die from being mocked , which is as bad as being killed by tickling .
I 'll see them safely married first and then hurry back to my master 's .
What 's wrong ?
I 'll tell you why -- so you wo n't have to tell me and give away any secrets you have with the king and queen . Recently , though I do n't know why , I 've lost all sense of fun , stopped exercising -- the whole world feels sterile and empty . This beautiful canopy we call the sky -- this majestic roof decorated with golden sunlight -- why , it 's nothing more to me than disease - filled air . What a perfect invention a human is , how noble in his capacity to reason , how unlimited in thinking , how admirable in his shape and movement , how angelic in action , how godlike in understanding ! There 's nothing more beautiful . We surpass all other animals . And yet to me , what are we but dust ? Men do n't interest me . No -- women neither , but you 're smiling , so you must think they do .
What woman , then ?
Why are they running away ? This is some joke of theirs to scare me .
It is best , no doubt about it .
Poor me , what am I going to say now ? But I 'm not poor in love -- my love is bigger than my words are .
Really , I do n't think you 're behaving very well .
Oh , look , sir , look , sir ! More of us are here . I remember I predicted that this guy could never drown , as long as there are gallows around on the land . Hey , you curser , who defiled our ship with your foul language , do n't you have any gutter talk for us on shore ? What 's going on ?
Will I hear from you soon ?
Oh Clitus !
The one who plays the part of the king will be particularly welcome . I 'll treat him like a real king . The adventurous knight will wave around his sword and shield , the lover will be rewarded for his sighs , the crazy character can rant all he wants , the clown will make everybody laugh , and the lady character can say whatever 's on her mind , or I 'll stop the play . Which troupe is it ?
I 'm very glad I came to see you . If he shows up tomorrow , I 'll give him what 's coming to him . If he can manage to walk after our fight , I 'll never wrestle for money again . Farewell , my lord .
You speak absolutely correctly , sir .
Now you 're talking . I definitely will . In my soul , I believe Hero has been falsely accused . And I 'll make sure that Claudio , the Prince , and anyone else who helped dishonor her know about it .
Good luck , worthy soldier , and good - bye .
I hope you both get drenched with a dew as evil as what my mother used to collect with a crow 's feather from the poison swamps . May a hot southwest wind blow on you and cover you with blisters all over .
Here an angel 's lying in a golden bed . --Give me the key . I will choose this one and try my chances .
Boatswain , who will be awake , and bring them here right away , please .
West of here , in the valley next to us . Passing by on your right , there is a row of willows . Follow them straight to the cottage . But right now , the house is keeping to itself -- there 's no one home .
No pretty woman is stupid , because her stupidity will make her more attractive to men .
My freedom .
Oh , Cleopatra ! You 've been betrayed , my Queen !
So could I.
" Go ahead . A happy new life is there if you want it -- "
Who 's this ? My granddaughter , with her kind aunt , the duchess of Gloucester , leading her by the hand ? Now , on my life , the young child must be headed to the Tower to greet the young princes , whom she adores . Daughter , how nice to see you .
Borachio .
This is going to be great !
What do you mean by that , Malvolio ?
Fortune is Bardolph 's enemy . She frowns on him , for he has stolen a pax from a church and he must be hanged . A damnable death ! It 's fine for dogs to be hung , but men should go free and not have their windpipes strangled with hemp . But Exeter has pronounced a death sentence -- and for a cheap little pax . Therefore , go and speak for him ! The duke will listen to you . Do n't let Bardolph 's life be brought to an end by a length of cheap rope and with this shame . Save his life , Captain , and I will repay you .
Tie up his withered old arms .
No , I swear it .
Anything you like , as long as it answers my question . You were sent for . You 've got a guilty look on your faces , which you 're too honest to disguise . I know the king and queen sent for you .
I hope Rosalind does n't feel as you do . Her frown alone would kill me .
What I 'm saying ca n't anger him . He would be angry if I summoned a strange spirit for her to have sex with -- that 's what would make him angry . The things I 'm saying are fair and honest . All I 'm doing is saying the name of the woman he loves to lure him out of the darkness .
It 's certain .
It 's too bad there 's more of the Moor than there ought to be . Well , even if she 's a less than honest woman , she 's still a lot more respectable than I thought at first .
Oh , horror , horror , horror ! This is beyond words and beyond belief !
No , sit down . You wo n't budge until I hold a mirror up to you , where you will see what 's deep inside you .
There has never been a widow who suffered such loss as me .
" Driven ? " Really ? Well , let whoever drove you here drive you back again . I had you figured for a piece of furniture .
That word " judgment " makes me feel a bit guilty .
How tragic !
Let 's seek out some shady place where we can sit down alone and cry our hearts out .
Yes , you are . You 're supposed to show that you understand that Pyramus just went to check on a noise he heard and is coming right back .
You flatter me with your kisses .
Hello , Cassio !
You mean he 's worse than she is ? That 's not possible !
There 's a cliff there that leans precariously over the deep sea . Take me to the edge of it , and I 'll reward all your troubles with something valuable . Once I 'm there , I wo n't need a guide anymore .
You 'll find me ready enough to do that , sir , if you give me a reason .
Are you all crazy ? What 's wrong with you ? Are you making all this noise at this time of night because you have no manners , or because you 're just stupid ? Are you trying to turn my mistress 's house into a noisy bar ? Is that why you 're squealing out these ridiculous vulgar songs without lowering your voices at all ? Do n't you have any respect for anything ?
Just a man , like any other .
Please , sir , I beg you . It 's a letter from my brother that I have n't finished reading yet . But judging from the bit I have read , it 's not fit for you to see .
Your fortunes are the same .
A man can fish with the worm that ate a king , and then eat the fish he catches with that worm .
He spends most of his time with the good , noble Claudio .
Really , are you afraid of that ? Then I have to assume you do n't want him to be king .
If you do n't like him you should quit .
They 're retreating .
Signor Angelo told me to come here and tell you that the Turkish fleet is heading for Rhodes , not Cyprus .
We 'll meet at the Elephant .
Signior Angelo , please excuse us . My wife gets angry when I 'm late . Here 's the story we 'll tell her : that I was with you at your shop , watching you make her necklace , and that you 're going to deliver it tomorrow . But here comes a scoundrel who says he saw me at the marketplace and that I beat on him , told him I 'd given him a thousand marks in gold , and then lied about my wife and my house . You drunkard , what was that all about ?
Enjoy , enjoy ! My wife has it all , Women are shrews , whether they 're short or they 're tall , It 's a merry party when men laugh and joke , So let 's enjoy ourselves this Shrovetide , Enjoy , enjoy !
Do you know whom you 're talking to ?
Do n't get too excited yet , sir . Just listen carefully while I tell you the amazing thing I saw , with these gentlemen as witnesses .
No slander ?
Me too -- but to satisfy this good old man , I too will bear any punishment he gives me .
Now go along on your way . Be strong and successful in this decision . I 'll send a friar quickly to Mantua with my letter for Romeo .
As freely , son , as God gave her to me .
Here are fennel and columbines for you -- they symbolize adultery . And here 's rue for you -- it symbolizes repentance . We can call it the merciful Sunday flower . You should wear it for a different reason . And here 's a daisy , for unhappy love . I 'd give you some violets , flowers of faithfulness , but they all dried up when my father died . They say he looked good when he died . For good sweet Robin is all my joy .
You 're so fat , Sir John , that you have no choice but to live out of moderation : moderation could not fit you .
Claudio deserves to be honored , and Don Pedro has rewarded him accordingly . Claudio has done more than anyone would expect of a man his age . He looks like a lamb but fights like a lion . He has so greatly exceeded all expectations that I ca n't even describe all he 's done .
You poor weak thing , you 're in love ! I can see it clearly now .
My lord , it 's news I wish I did n't have to report .
I 've heard about this indirectly , but I will send for him . In every one of the lords ' households I have a servant paid to spy for me . Tomorrow , while it 's still early , I will go see the witches . They will tell me more , because I 'm determined to know the worst about what 's going to happen . My own safety is the only important thing now . I have walked so far into this river of blood that even if I stopped now , it would be as hard to go back to being good as it is to keep killing people . I have some schemes in my head that I 'm planning to put into action . I have to do these things before I have a chance to think about them .
Yes , my lord , if you would like .
For heaven 's sake , why are you smiling like that and kissing your hand so much ?
Hail to your majesty .
He 'll be going to law school soon . I studied law at Clement 's Inn , where I think they still talk about crazy old Shallow .
This is pure insanity . He 'll be like this for a little while . Then he 'll be as calm and quiet as a dove waiting for her eggs to hatch .
I 'll answer for everything . I do n't know if you know or approve of this , but in the wee hours of the morning your daughter left your house , with no better escort than a hired gondolier , to go into the rough embrace of a lustful Moor . If all of this happened with your
I 'll have none of your money .
Oh really ? That far ?
Before you were queen -- in fact , before your husband was king --I was a packhorse for his great affairs , a weeder - out of his proud enemies , a generous rewarder of his friends . In order to make his blood royal , I spent my own blood .
Look at that , he acts insulted if you say bad things about the devil ! I hope to God he 's not bewitched !
A second Daniel ! --A Daniel , Jew ! I 've got you now , pagan .
He could never bear carnation . It was a color he never did like .
It was incredible !
We weird sisters , hand in hand , swift travelers over the sea and land , dance around and around like so . Three times to yours , and three times to mine , and three times again , to add up to nine . Enough ! The charm is ready .
And I 'll be as faithful to you as Helen of Troy , until the day I die .
Here , here , sir ! Here , sir !
Yes , and you 'll take it . If not , I have another leek in my pocket that you can eat .
You may do whatever you want in the world . It 's yours , and you may hang us , your trophies of war , anywhere you like . Here , my good lord .
I do n't know what " poetical " means . Is it " chaste in word and action " ? Does it mean being truthful ?
Yes sir , thank God .
There is a chronicle for every man 's life , which shows what happened to him in times now past . If you study that chronicle , you can prophecy what lies ahead with some accuracy . The seeds of things to come are buried in the things that have already happened . These seeds grow , and become the children of time .
Very suspicious . Hold the friar too .
Most worthy sir , if you do that you throw away all the advantages you have on land . You will have to divide your army , which mostly consists of battle-hardened foot soldiers . You will be unable to use your legendary battle knowledge . You 'll be abandoning proven methods that promise victory , and instead you 'll put yourself at the mercy of haphazard chance .
He exposed Edgar 's murderous plot , and was wounded , as you see there , when trying to apprehend him .
Your wife , sir , your wife . And her sister 's dead too , poisoned by your wife . She confessed .
It is , my lord .
I tried to stop speaking plainly , since you dislike plain speech so much . Sir , I know I 'm not a flatterer . The guy who tricked you with plain language was just a plain crook -- which I 'm not , however much I may displease you by not being one .
A King 's son ! If I do n't drive you out of the kingdom with a wooden dagger , and send your subjects running before you like a flock of geese , then I 'll never grow a beard again . You , Prince of Wales ? What a joke !
You do n't look well , Antonio . You 're taking things too seriously . People with too much invested in the world always get hurt . I 'm telling you , you do n't look like yourself .
And you do n't hear anything ?
What should I do ? I know it 's foolish to be so much in love , but I ca n't help it .
Follow him , now ! Go .
It 's almost five o'clock , cousin . You should be ready by now . Oh , I really do n't feel well . Heigh-ho !
I leave a slimy bastard with you , your Worship , for you to punish and make an example of . God bless your Worship ! I wish you well . I hope that God restores you to health . I will humbly let you go now , God prohibiting we will meet again in the future . --Come on , man .
And then what would I do with him ? Dress him up in my clothes and pretend he 's my lady servant ? If he has a beard , he 's more than a boy ; if he does n't have a beard , he 's less than a man . If he 's more than a boy , he 's not the one for me , and if he 's less than a man , I 'm not the one for him . They say that women who die unmarried are destined to lead the apes to hell , and I suppose that 'll be my fate as well .
I 've only done my duty .
He made a gentler decision . You wo n't die , but you 'll be banished from the city .
Peter !
No epilogue , please . Your play does n't need to be excused afterward with an epilogue . Never apologize -- when the actors are all dead , no one can be blamed . As a matter of fact , if the playwright had played Pyramus and hanged himself with Thisbe 's belt , it would have been a very good tragedy . It 's a good tragedy , very well done . But come on , let 's see you do your dance . Forget your epilogue .
Oh , come on , woman . Stop jumping to silly conclusions . Now you 're jealous , thinking that this is from some mistress of mine , but I swear it 's not , Bianca .
Come . Come . Go inside with me . My thoughts are like the ocean at high tide -- neither coming in nor going out , seeming to stand still . I want to go join the Archbishop , but many thousands of reasons are holding me back . I 'll go to Scotland and wait there till events unfold and my help is called for .
Good night , dear Captain Blunt .
I 'll do my best to make this lady love you . -- But what a tough task ! --I have to go matchmaking for the man I want to marry myself !
You call yourself my wife , yet you do n't call me " husband " ? It 's my men who should call me " lord . " I 'm your man , your fellow .
Romeo , come out . Come out , you frightened man . Trouble likes you , and you 're married to disaster .
What a fine sight ! My dear clever Ariel , listen carefully .
What 's the matter with you now ?
Now die , die , die , die , die .
It does n't matter . Make sure that none of the statues are decorated in tribute to Caesar . I 'll walk around and force the commoners off the streets . You do the same , wherever the crowds are thick . If we take away Caesar 's support , he 'll have to come back down to earth ; otherwise , he 'll fly too high and keep the rest of us in a state of fear and obedience .
What a spoiled little brat . She 'd make herself cry now , if she could think of a reason .
Sir , he burst into the room without invitation , just after I had come from an important banquet with three kings . I was not myself , as a result of the wine . The next day I explained all this to him , which was as good as begging his pardon . Let 's not fight over this fellow . If we must argue , let us remove him from our arguments .
First let me talk with this philosopher here . -- What causes thunder ?
Come here , good Volumnius . Listen a minute .
I 'll bring you to him right away .
That 's true . But come on , start .
And then Pyramus showed up .
Tripping over his own toes , making funny faces . Do you love me , master ? No ?
I cannot tell .
He sends his greetings through a good man . Your master , Pindarus , either because he 's changed his mind or been influenced by bad officers , has made me wish we had n't done some of the things we did . If he 's nearby , I want an explanation .
Round enough to be unattractive .
They plan to spend the night in Sardis . The larger part , the main body of cavalry , are coming with Cassius .
Then we 'd be honored to have you join us in our wedding ceremony .
How can you call me that ? Do n't you suspect my office ? Do n't you suspect my age ? Oh , if only the sexton were here to write down that I 'm an ass ! Gentlemen , remember that I am an ass ; even though it 's not written down , do n't forget that I 'm an ass . Oh , you 're a rotten bastard , you are . I 'm a wise man and , what 's more , I 'm an officer of the law and , what 's more , I 'm a householder and , what 's more , I 'm as handsome a hunk of meat as any in Messina . And I know the law , damn you , and I 'm rich enough , damn you , and I used to have more , but I still have two robes and lots of lovely things . --Take him away ! --Oh , if only the sexton had recorded that I 'm an ass !
Why , what 's wrong , count ? Why are you so sad ?
Eros , my young friend , your captain is now just like that cloud . Here and now I seem like Antony , but I ca n't keep myself in this form , my boy . I went to war to save Cleopatra , whose love I thought I had , since she had mine -- and mine carried with it a million others , those of my soldiers , now lost . The Queen conspired with Caesar to undermine my success and assure his victory . No , do n't cry , kind Eros . We still have the option of killing ourselves .
I ca n't tell what 's going on . The world has become so bad that now little wrens have settled where eagles used to roost . Since every peasant has been made into a nobleman , many noblemen have been dragged down to the level of peasants .
Well , well . You 're a generous man . Wise men who give fools money might get a good reputation -- if they keep up regular payments for fourteen years .
Well , let 's have it , Grumio .
Just the heavens , cousin OrlEans .
Yes , with Cassio . Now be quiet .
Yes , I 'm sure he will -- to stay with you . Next month he 'll stay with us .
Too late , good Diomedes . Call my guard , please .
Well , Petruchio is coming in a new hat and an old vest , a pair of old pants turned inside out , unmatched boots that have been used as spittoons , one buckled , the other laced ; a rusty old sword from the town armory with a broken hilt and no scabbard . He 's got on worn-out garters and is riding a swayback old horse with a moth-eaten saddle , stirrups from two different sets , a bad hip , swollen glands , lockjaw , leg ulcers , bedsores , arthritis , jaundice , a hernia , hives , worms , cancer , a mossy overbite , and post-nasal drip . He 's knock-kneed too . His bit 's lopsided and his cardboard bridle , which breaks when you pull on it , is taped in a few places . The saddle strap is made out of patchwork , and the strap that goes under his tail to keep the saddle in place is velvet , with the initials of some woman written in studs .
Thank you very much . May heaven bless you .
Then patiently listen to my impatience .
Yes , even if I die an hour later .
He 's pretty awful in the morning when he 's sobering up , and even worse in the afternoon when he 's drunk . At his best he 's a little less than a man , and at his worst he 's little more than an animal . If we got married and he tragically met his demise , I 'm sure I could find a way to go on without him .
Please calm down . He 's just in a bad mood . Political business is bothering him , and he 's just taking it out on you .
I 'll tell you , Cassius , you yourself have been called greedy and been accused of giving your positions to undeserving men in exchange for gold .
Tell me one .
I see Regan and Goneril in hell --A thousand hissing devils with sizzling red pitchforks come up to them !
She 's a fine woman , all right .
Yes , madam . But I ca n't help laughing to think that the baby stopped crying and said , " Yes . " I swear , she had a bump on her forehead as big as a rooster 's testicle . It was a painful bruise , and she was crying bitterly . " Yes , " said my husband , " Did you fall on your face ? You 'll fall backward when you grow up , wo n't you , Jule ? " And she stopped crying and said , " Yes . "
Quiet , quiet , Iras .
If I could say hello to the fifth one as happily as I 'll say goodbye to the first four , I 'd be very happy he 's coming . If he 's as good as a saint but is black like a devil , I 'd rather he hear my confession than marry me . Let 's go , Nerissa . -- Go ahead . As soon as we shut the door on one suitor , another one starts knocking .
It 's just my bad luck .
I hope I enjoy wearing it , for my heart is very heavy .
What , you whore , are you crying for him right in front of me ?
In that case , there is yours , Richard Earl of Cambridge ; there yours , Lord Scroop of Masham ; and , sir knight , Grey of Northumberland , this one is yours . Read them , and trust that I recognize your true worth . My Lord of Westmoreland , and uncle Exeter , we will set sail night . --Why , what 's this , gentlemen ! What 's in those papers that makes you change color?- -Look how pale they 're turning ! Their cheeks are like paper . --What are you reading that makes you turn white ?
He 's married , madam .
Except for the fact that she loves Benedick .
There is nothing in the world that I love as much as you . Is n't that strange ?
Good luck . I hope to God I 'm wrong about your chances .
Hell ! Damn it all to hell ! " Passionately " ? What " passion " ? Gloucester , Gloucester , I want to speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife .
Portia , are you really gone ?
None of them , except the last one . He fell in love , and that made him leave home often .
Not me . I 'll tell you what , Corporal Bardolph , I could tear her . I 'll get revenge on her .
horses droop their heads , their flanks and hips sagging , pus seeping from eyes as pale as death , and in their colorless mouths , the motionless bit is smeared with chewed grass . Meanwhile , their executors , malicious crows , fly over them , impatient for their moment . It 's beyond the power of words to describe an army so bereft of life .
I go , Caesar .
I 'll be there in a minute . Start without me .
I will fight by sea . By sea .
No , my lord .
I sincerely hope it does you good , mangy rascal . No , do n't throw any of it away . The skin is good for your cracked head . When you see leeks in the future , I hope you keep mocking them . That 's all .
Yes , why not , my lord ? Then if they 're negligent , we could control them . Now that I think about the danger of these knights , if you come to stay with me , please bring no more than twenty-five of them with you . I wo n't lodge any more than that under my roof .
Please , my good Hal , help me find my horse , you good king 's son .
Kind sir , give me a good fortune .
Hal , what time is it , my boy ?
It 's true .
" Some achieve greatness -- "
And those eyes were endowed with sight by Claudio , the Prince , and me . But what did you want ?
Are n't you a coward ? Tell me that . And Poins there ?
Then if I accomplish anything great , it will be a credit to you .
I know him well . He 's his homeland 's jewel .
I 'd like to get to know you better , Mr. Cobweb . If I cut my finger , I 'll use you as a bandage to stop the bleeding . --And your name , sir ?
True , and you are n't supposed to meddle with anyone but the Prince 's subjects . You will also stay quiet in the streets , for a babbling watch is most tolerable and will not be endured .
A mature age . Is your name William ?
A color that I fear you 'll be buried in , Sir John .
honor you . How can my sisters speak the truth when they say they love only you ? Do n't they love their husbands too ? Hopefully when I get married , I 'll give my husband half my love and half my sense of duty . I 'm sure I 'll never get married in the way my sisters say they 're married , loving their father only .
What 's with you , my lord ?
Yes , the state 's half can be reduced , but not Antonio 's .
Truly , I was n't there .
Give it to my wife , and get your money .
The plain truth does n't lie . You can see how it is all around . Fighting comes and goes , God 's loyal servants drop and die . And sword and shield In bloody field Will win immortal fame .
Since we 've come this far , please -- let 's continue on . And whatever it is -- moon or sun or anything you like -- if you want to call it a tea candle , that 's what it is as far as I 'm concerned . From now on , I promise .
I did n't take any more pains bringing this message than you took pains in thanking me . If the job had been painful , I would not have come .
I 'll be straight with you . Do not doubt it .
Are you making faces at me , you scoundrel ?
Who brought it out here ?
I 'm begging you on my knees to tell me what your words mean . I can tell you 're furious , but I do n't understand what you 're saying .
The present time is like a woman in labor , each minute giving birth to some piece of news .
Start a fight ? No , sir .
We failed in half of our mission .
Okay , then , unhappy ghost , you can rest now . So , gentlemen , I thank you heartily and with all my love , and I 'll repay you however I can some day . Let 's go back to court together , but shhh , please . No talking about this . There is so much out of whack in these times . And damn the fact that I 'm supposed to fix it ! Come on , let 's go .
Amen . That would be me .
Get out of here , fool , and give orders to your servants , not me .
Please let him be all right !
Thank you , sir . Now please tell me this : which of the two ladies who were at the wrestling match is the duke 's daughter ?
Have courage , man . The wound ca n't be that bad .
La main ? That is " de hand . "
Come on , I 'll escort you to dinner .
Spend your own .
His imagination is making him crazy .
My spirit has been as proud as each of yours , my courage as great , and my reason perhaps even better suited to bandy words back and forth and exchange frown for frown . But now I see our weapons are like straws , our strength like a straw 's weakness , and our weakness past comparison , so that we seem to be the thing we most are not . Humble your pride , then , since it 's useless , and place your hand beneath your husband 's foot . As a gesture of my loyalty , my hand is ready if he cares to use it . May it bring him comfort .
Yes , as sure as I have a thought or a soul .
Should I tend your pigs and eat husks with them ? When did I waste so much money that I ended up this poor ?
Very near , and approaching fast . The main body of the army is expected here any hour now .
And if your clothes were as thin as mine , you 'd really feel the air . The food inside is warm , but you 're out here freezing . It would make any man as mad as a bull to be betrayed like this .
Then you 're damned for keeping your word with the devil .
They 're only burrs , cousin , thrown at you because you took a holiday from conventional behavior . If we walk on the well-worn paths , they wo n't get caught in our petticoats .
Can Caesar be there in person ? No , that 's impossible . It 's strange enough that his army should be there . Canidius , take our nineteen legions and twelve thousand horse soldiers . You must hold them on land . We 'll go to our ship . Come away , Cleopatra .
Do n't say that -- unless you want to be one of my friends .
Though he seems a little old - fashioned , there is much care and courage in this Welshman .
I accept your devotion with my deepest love . I 'll put you to the test right away . Within the next three days I want to hear you tell me that Cassio 's dead .
It means being full of sighs and tears , like I am for Phoebe .
The biggest clue is his seriousness .
I do n't expect Caesar and Antony will have a very friendly reunion . Antony 's dead wife raised an army against him , as did his brother , though I do n't think Antony instigated it .
We 're men beached on the sand , hoping to be washed out by the next tide .
May God bless your good heart ! She is all that , I swear .
Now you 've got to acknowledge my innocence and believe I 'm your friend , since you 've heard and understood that the man who killed your father was trying to kill me .
So she is drowned .
" If you do n't want it , just keep acting like a lowly servant . "
This may have seemed like the pinnacle of sadness , but if I went on I could outdo it . While I was sobbing loudly , a man came in . He had seen me in my ragged clothes and shunned me , but when he found out who I was , he clasped my neck with his strong arms and cried to high heaven . He threw himself on my father and told the saddest story you 've ever heard about Lear and him . As he was telling that story he grieved more and
Well , you have made a foolish choice . You do n't know how to pick a man . Romeo ? No , not him , though his face is more handsome than any man 's , and his legs are prettier , and as for his hands and feet and body , they 're not much to speak of , and yet they 're beyond compare . He 's not the most polite man in the world , but , believe me , he 's gentle as a lamb . Well , do what you want . Be good . Have you had lunch yet ?
That 's what I conceive of him .
Poor Tom 's chilly .
Yes , and thanks for reminding me . I hope that all of you who stay home , safe and sound , will say a prayer that we soldiers do n't end up in some hot battle . For , by the Lord , I 've only packed two shirts , and I do n't want to sweat too much . If things get hot and I pull out any other weapon besides a bottle , I 'll never drink wine again . I get sent out on every dangerous assignment
Yes , that one .
I hope you 're right . I was n't born to die on your sword .
Happy that we 're not too happy , lucky in being not too lucky . We 're not exactly at the top of our luck .
Well then , you can leave one of the windows open in the big hall where we 'll be performing , and the moon can shine in through the window .
Oh , I assure you the things he writes about are wretched -- things like divisions between parents and children , death , famine , broken friendships , political rebellion , treason against the king and noblemen , exiled friends , dissolved armies , adultery , and I do n't know what else .
I 'm here , full of anger , to complain about my daughter Hermia . --Step forward , Demetrius . --My lord , this man , Demetrius , has my permission to marry her . --Step forward , Lysander . --But this other man , Lysander , has cast a magic spell over my child 's heart . --You , you , Lysander , you 've given her poems , and exchanged tokens of love with my daughter . You 've pretended to be in love with her , singing fake love songs softly at her window by moonlight , and you 've captured her imagination by giving her locks of your hair , rings , toys , trinkets , knickknacks , little presents , flowers , and candies -- things that can really influence an impressionable young person . You 've connived to steal my daughter 's heart , making her stubborn and harsh instead of obedient . --And , my gracious duke , if she wo n't agree to marry Demetrius right now , I ask you to let me exercise the right that all fathers have in Athens . Since she belongs to me , I can do what I want with her -- as the law says : I can either make her marry Demetrius -- or have her killed .
Not an inch further . But listen here , Kate . Wherever I go , you will go too . I leave today , and tomorrow , you . Will this make you content , Kate ?
Yes , but no doctor can help me .
Give it to me . Is it in its holster ?
And since I wooed her in your name , I 'll join you in disgracing her .
You did n't go to sleep , then ?
What did I do ? I did n't do anything . I need to get away from you .
I 'll tell you truly what I think about the king in my heart . I do n't think he wants to be anywhere but where he is .
So nice to see you . -- Hello , sir . --But what are you doing away from Wittenberg , Horatio ?
Then we wo n't agree to his demands .
Why not ?
My lord , your noble subjects are looking for you all over the camp . They 're anxious to see you .
His name ! As if I would n't know his name , I who brought him up ever since he was three years old . His name is Tranio .
I think so .
Then you are damned .
But sir , there is no such house , no such maid , and no such men as you have dreamed up , like a certain Stephen Sly and one old John Naps of Greece , a Peter Turph , one " Henry Pimpernell , " and twenty more men of this sort -- who never actually existed .
They certainly do like to butt heads !
I 'm not a scholar 's kind of melancholy , which is all about impressing one 's peers , or a musician 's , which comes from his passion for his art . I do n't have the proud melancholy of a courtier or the ambitious melancholy of a soldier or the calculated melancholy of a lawyer . My melancholy is not like a lady 's -- which is nothing more than an affectation -- nor like a lover 's , which combines all of these qualities . My melancholy is purely my own -- a compound made from many ingredients . I 'm serious because I 've traveled so much . When I think about all the things I 've seen , I sink into deep thoughts .
That 's what I 'm afraid of . I suggest you lay low until his rage cools a little . In the meantime , come home with me , and when the time is right I 'll take you to talk to him . Please go . Here 's my key . If you go outside , arm yourself .
Before she began shedding tears all over her lovely face , she was the fairest creature in the world -- and even now she has no equal .
In that case I 'm afraid you 're damned by both your father and your mother . When you avoid one trap , you fall into another . You 're in trouble either way .
Carry Master Silence to bed . Master Shallow --Lord Shallow -- call yourself whatever you want . I 'm in
This is a good agreement . Now , let 's go . A strange disease requires a strange cure . Come , lady ; you must die in order to live . Hopefully , your wedding day is only postponed . Have patience and endure .
God help the king ! Save him !
Good Macbeth , we 're ready when you are .
Pour in the blood of a sow who has eaten her nine offspring . Take the sweat of a murderer on the gallows and throw it into the flame .
I 'll do whatever they order me to do in this letter .
If not , mighty sovereign , let the blame be mine . For it is written in the book of Numbers : " When the man dies , let the inheritance descend unto the daughter . " Gracious lord , claim what is yours . Unfurl your banners of war . Take your mighty ancestors as models . Go to the tomb of your great - grandfather , from whom your own title to the crown derives . Invoke his warlike spirit and that of Edward the Black Prince , your great - uncle , who fought a tragic battle on French soil , routing the French army in full force while his mighty father stood by on a hilltop , smiling to see his son steeped in the blood of French noblemen . O noble English , who could take on the entire French army with only half their forces , leaving the other half to stand by , idle and laughing .
I beg your highness , advance . Your army will lose heart if it sees you falling back .
My dear madam , why are you in mourning ?
Please do . Would you like some more sauce to go with it ? There is n't enough leek left for you to swear on .
Two props of virtue for a Christian prince , to prevent him from ever becoming vain . And , see , he has a prayer book in each hand , the signs of a holy man . Most gracious prince of the famous house of Plantagenet , pardon us for interrupting your righteous , Christian prayer . Please listen favorably to our request .
Have you called off the troops ?
That 's true , they are . My strength is all gone , as if in a dream . The death of my father , my physical weakness , the loss of all my friends , the threats of this man who 's taken me prisoner -- all that would be easy for me to take , if only I could look through my prison windows once a day and see this girl . I do n't need any more freedom than that . A prison like that would give me enough liberty .
Do you want to go hunting , my lord ?
Exactly , madam , until I sleep with you .
Thanks for the compliment , I 'm happy you know that . But in fact it does n't say much . I 'm sorry , you were saying ?
Your descendants will be kings , even though you will not be one . So all hail , Macbeth and Banquo !
Well , everyone knows how to overcome an injury except the one who actually has one .
Nothing but your good company .
But while we pray and wait for that help , the cause we petition for may be lost .
We 'll take you there . Please , will you take his arm ?
The moon has set . The clock has n't struck yet .
I 've botched the job , friends . Oh , finish what I 've begun .
It 's the smartest partition I 've ever heard speak , my lord .
You 're treating your face even worse by saying that .
Get down . I hear them coming .
Do you hear , my friend ?
Welcome back from Egypt , sir .
Then lead the way , father . I want the skies bright and shining to show its approval of our wedding .
This is the strangest man , John . All right then , display your prize on your back . As far as I 'm concerned , if lying will help you out , I 'll decorate your lie as prettily as I can .
Well , I wo n't take it any longer . And I 'm not going to sit back and accept what you 've done .
Three thousand ducats .
Master , your guests are just standing here . Tell them they 're welcome .
Oh , Corin , I wish you could understand how much I love her !
Old , old , Master Shallow .
Brave Eros , three times more honorable than I am ! You teach me what I should do but could not . My Queen and Eros have by their brave examples beaten me to the history books . But I will embrace death as a bridegroom does his bride , and rush to it as to a lover 's bed . Come then . Eros , your master dies your student . I learned to do this from you .
Now he 's a little crooked . Gouge out the other eye too .
Oh , I beg your pardon . You 're the singer . I 'll answer for you . It is " music with her silver sound , " because musicians have no gold to use to make sounds .
Can you swear to it ?
Why ? Are they getting rusty ?
Bear with me , good boy . I 've become very forgetful . Can you stay awake a bit longer and play a few tunes on your lute ?
My lord , please do n't think about this any more . Time will tell . It 's right for Cassio to have his lieutenancy back -- he 's very talented . But keep him away for a while , and you 'll see how he goes about getting it back . Notice whether your wife insists on your
Well , we 'll see how you act .
Let 's go to bed , knight . Tomorrow you need to get more money sent to you .
Thank you , sir .
If we are n't relieved in an hour , we have to return to our barracks . The night is bright , and they say we 'll be forming for battle by two a.m.
What quality is that , my lord ?
No doubt , no doubt . Oh , he 's a dangerously clever boy -- bold , quick - witted , capable . He 's his mother 's child from head to toe .
Come on , come on . You women are all the same . You 're as pretty as pictures when you 're out in public , but in your own houses you 're as noisy as jangling bells . In your own kitchens you act like wildcats . You make yourselves sound like saints when you 're complaining about something , but you act like devils when someone offends you . You do n't take your jobs as housewives seriously , and you 're shameless hussies in bed .
" D' elbow . " Let me practice all the words you 've taught me so far .
Asking me to speak of my unspeakable griefs - that 's the hardest task you could impose on me . But I 'll do it so that the world can see that it was natural emotion , and not a desire to break the law , that brought me to this fate . I 'll tell you whatever my sorrow permits me to say . I was born in Syracuse , and I married a woman - a fortunate woman , except for having been married to me . And yet I would have made her happy had our luck not been so bad . I lived with her in joy , and our wealth increased from the prosperous journeys I frequently made to Epidamnum . Then my agent died and , obligated to care for my now untended goods abroad , I was drawn away from my wife 's fond embraces . I had n't been gone for six months when my wife , almost fainting with the pains of pregnancy , made arrangements to follow me , and she soon arrived safely where I was . She had n't been there very long before she became the joyful mother of twin boys . It was strange : they looked so much alike that the only way to tell them apart was by their names . In the same hour , and in the same inn , a poor woman also delivered identical twin boys . Their parents had very little , so I bought the boys and raised them as companions and servants for our twin sons . My wife was more than a little proud of our two boys , and every day she would press me to return home . Reluctantly , I agreed - alas ! Too quickly , we boarded a ship .
No one carries their wit next to them , though some people are beside their wit . Come on , draw your wit , just as musicians draw their bows across the instru - ments : draw for our pleasure .
If you want to read it , as I have n't heard it yet , though I 've heard too much of Phoebe 's cruelty .
My memory is hazy , more like a dream than a recollection . Did n't I use to have four or five women taking care of me ?
You want proof of what I 'm telling you ? Stand right here and watch this fellow 's " lesson . "
Is someone throwing dice ? I guess it 's " die , " not dice , since there 's only one of him .
I really did n't want to inconvenience you . But since you seem to enjoy helping me , I wo n't nag you to stop any more .
Lady !
It 's a job meant for a man , but not you .
Just keep asking Desdemona , and it 'll be yours . If it was up to Bianca to get you your job back , you 'd have had it already !
Heaven knows you 're as unfaithful as hell .
Well , One fine daughter , and no more , Whom he loved more than anything -- .
What 's your name , friend ?
He is called Ensign Pistol .
Do n't be scared . This island is full of noises , strange sounds and sweet melodies that make you feel good and do n't hurt anyone . Sometimes I hear a thousand twanging instruments hum at my ears , and sometimes voices that send me back to sleep even if I had just woken up -- and then I dreamed of clouds opening up and dropping such riches on me that when I woke up , I cried because I wanted to dream again .
That means it 's more likely to be fake . Please , keep it to yourself . I heard you were rude when you were standing outside my gate , and that 's the only reason I let you in . I was curious . But I do n't necessarily want to listen to you . If you 're just insane , then get out of here . If you 're in your right mind , get to the point . I 've got no patience for lunacy at the moment , and I do n't want to waste my time on ridiculous conversations .
How smooth and cool they seem ! Just as if they were perfectly loyal and faithful .
Go ahead . I 'll get some cloth and egg whites to bandage his bleeding face . Heaven help him !
Apparently so . --Cover their faces .
Is this possible ?
People think very highly of him . The merchants give him unlimited credit . He 's well beloved , second to none in the city . I 'd trust him with everything I own .
" I salute myself , I salute you , and I 'm done . Do n't get too close to Poins . He takes such rampant advantage of your kindness that he swears you will marry his sister Nell . Confess your sins when you have the time ; and with that , farewell . Yours up and down
Step aside . Here 's the Athenian coming now .
The man who was the thane of Cawdor is still alive , but he 's been sentenced to death , and he deserves to die . I do n't know whether he fought on Norway 's side , or if he secretly aided the rebels , or if he fought with both of our enemies . But his treason , which has been proven , and to which he 's confessed , means he 's finished .
Oh , the people love him well . Things that would look bad if we did them , Brutus could do and look virtuous -- just like an alchemist turns worthless tin to gold .
What is it ?
name for himself - and go in search of him . I wanted to see my lost son as well , so I risked losing the one I loved in order to find the other . I 've spent five years in the remotest parts of Greece and roaming all over Asia . On my way home , I came to Ephesus . I have no hope of finding my boys here , but I will check every place that is inhabited by men . But that is where the story of my life must end . I 'd be happy to die if , in all my travels , I could prove that they are alive .
My host Pistol , you must come to my master . You too , my hostess : he is very sick and should be put to bed . Bardolph , put your face between his sheets and act as a warming pan . Really , he 's very sick !
But still , it 's true that good things can go bad , away from their true natures --
My uncle Clarence 's angry ghost . My grandmother told me he was murdered there .
Let me borrow your lantern so I can check on my horse in the stable .
Your mother sends her blessings . She prays continually on your behalf . Enough about that -- morning will be here soon . To be brief -- as the occasion requires -- prepare to fight early in the morning , when your future will be decided . I ca n't do everything I want to , but I 'll help you as well as I can . But I ca n't be too obvious about being on your side without risking the life of your stepbrother , young George . If I 'm seen helping you , George will be killed right in front of my eyes . Farewell . The lack of time and the risk I 'm under will have to keep us from bonding and catching up on each other 's news the way we usually would after not seeing each other for so long . I hope we have the time some day ! Again , goodbye . Be brave and do well !
It 's going to be fun , I promise . I know my medicine will work on him . I 'll have you two hide -- and the fool too -- right where he 'll find the letter . Watch his reaction . Meanwhile , let 's go to bed and dream about this . Good night .
" Follow " ? No , I 'll walk right next to you , side by side .
Go back to your lord . I ca n't love him . Tell him not to send any more messengers -- unless you feel like coming back to tell me how he took the bad news . Goodbye . Thanks for your trouble . Here 's some money for you .
My honorable , reverend master ? Yes , of course . There he is at the window .
Well , there 's a rumor that Antonio had a ship carrying expensive cargo that shipwrecked in the English Channel on the Goodwin Sands , a very dangerous sandbar . Many ships have sunk there , according to rumors .
Has Fortune turned on me , like the whore she is ? I 've had news that my Nell died of the pox in a hospice . There went my last refuge . I grow old , and all dignity has been thrashed out of me . Well , I 'll turn pimp and do some occasional pickpocketing . I 'll steal away to England , and I 'll steal some more when I get there . I 'll bandage up these wounds and swear I got them in the French wars .
I 'll confess to you that I love him .
No , please good Meg , I 'll wear this one .
Who is this ?
I hear that Edgar , Gloucester 's exiled son , is with the Earl of Kent in Germany .
Are they as popular as they used to be when I lived in the city ? Do they attract big audiences ?
Now , good sweet Nurse - -Oh Lord , why do you look so sad ? Even if the news is sad , tell me with a smile on your face . If the news is good , you 're ruining the sweet news by playing a trick with a sour face like that .
To none but you , only to you . You will surely lose any game you play with Caesar . With his natural luck , he will beat you even against the odds . Your light dulls when he is near . I repeat : your angel is afraid to inspire you when you 're around him , but when he goes away it becomes brilliant again .
Go wake Juliet . Go and get her dressed . I 'll go and chat with Paris . Hey , hurry up , hurry up ! The bridegroom is already here . Hurry up , I say .
Is that what you 've heard ? Then you 'd better get your ears checked . I am called Katherine by those who have any business using my name .
Well , I 'll finish the song I started . --Meanwhile , sirs , set the table . The duke will drink under this tree . --He 's been looking for you all day , you know .
Weeds grow best in the richest soil , and he -- like myself at that age -- is overrun by them . My sadness , then , cannot end with my death . When I imagine the lawless days and rotten times that you will face when I am dead and sleeping with my ancestors , the blood weeps from my heart . When Hal 's headstrong wildness has free rein ; when aggression and passion are his advisors ; when he has full opportunity to indulge in his riotous inclinations , then --Oh ! -- his criminal desires will fly like a bird towards danger and ruin .
A friend .
Romeo , my cousin , Romeo , Romeo !
Yes , and so unexpectedly , at night . There are some important matters we need your advice on , Gloucester . My father and my sister have both recently written to me about arguments between them . I realized it would be inconvenient to answer them from home , especially since the king may be on his way there . Their messengers are ready , waiting to deliver our response in these matters . So please , old friend , give us some good advice . We need it desperately and immediately .
Come here ! Ah , you bird of prey ! Now by all the gods and devils , my authority weakens . Not long ago , when I cried , " Ho ! " kings would jump up and cry , " What 's your pleasure ? " Are you deaf ? I 'm still Antony .
Trebonius wants you to look over his humble petition , at your leisure .
No , my good lord , this is nicer stuff .
Why ?
Play , trumpets ! A call to arms , drums ! Do n't let the heavens hear these chattery women abuse the Lord 's anointed king . Play , I say !
You gave that handkerchief , the one I loved and gave to you , to Cassio .
Richard , your wife , your wretched wife , Anne , who never enjoyed a quiet hour of sleep with you , now fills your sleep with disturbing thoughts . Tomorrow in battle think of me and fall on your sword : despair , and die ! You quiet soul , sleep a quiet sleep . Dream of success and happy victory . Your enemy 's wife is praying for you .
Sir , I 'm a true , simple laborer : I earn what I eat , get what I wear , hate no man , envy no man 's happiness , am happy for other men 's good fortune and satisfied with my own bad fortune , and the source of my greatest pride is watching my ewes graze and my lambs feed .
Tell us about this wrestling .
Here comes Ensign Pistol and his wife . Be cool now , corporal . --How are you , Pistol , my good host ?
No , but Beatrice - -
Meet me and Gratiano at his house in about an hour .
You swear never to mention what you 've seen . Swear by my sword .
Nothing .
Listen , Dardanius .
There are reasons and causes why and how in everything . I 'll tell you as my friend , Captain Gower : that rascally , mean , beggarly , lousy , bragging Pistol , whom you and yourself and all the world know to be no better than a peasant -- see-- with no good qualities at all : he came to me yesterday and brought me bread and salt and told me to eat my leek . We were somewhere where I could n't pick a fight with him , but I 've decided to wear it in my cap until I see him again , whereupon I 'll give him a little piece of my mind .
My husband ?
He wants to eat the English .
How is my noble lord ?
I wo n't bother you any more than necessary .
Do you have unusual snakes there ?
He 's still a bachelor , or at least he was a month ago , when I left . But there was a rumor -- you know , people always gossip about royalty -- that he was in love with the beautiful Olivia .
Nurse !
They sit chatting by the parlor fire .
Okay .
It looks that way .
Speak more quietly : I think he 's coming this way .
My dear Macbeth , why do you look so startled and afraid of these nice things they 're saying ? Tell me honestly , are you illusions , or are you really what you seem to be ? You 've greeted my noble friend with honors and talk of a future so glorious that you 've made him speechless . But you do n't say anything to me . If you can see the future and say how things will turn out , tell me . I do n't want your favors and I 'm not afraid of your hatred .
And yet I feel it 's very hot and humid , which is bad for my complexion .
Good morning to both of you .
destroy all my prospects in life ! More than anything else in the world , I love you , value you , and honor you .
What 's he talking about ? How are you , madam ?
Cut off their heads ? You mean their maidenheads ?
Good gentlemen , give me permission to speak . I know I ought to obey my husband , but not now . Maybe I 'll never go home again , Iago !
I only want to teach the baby birds to sing ; then I will return the nest to its rightful owner .
Good night , good brother .
That 's enough about that . Now I 'll tell you the other story about my journey . Do you remember the circumstances ?
God save you , Sir John .
My master said it . " I do n't know , " he said , " any house , wife , or mistress . " My message , which was supposed to be delivered with my mouth , ended up being carried back home by my shoulders . Because at the end of it all , that 's where he beat me .
My beautiful queen , we 'll go up the mountain and listen to the hounds as their barking echoes in the cliffs and sounds like music .
I 'm a carpenter , sir .
Is that the man ?
Because you 've behaved so badly , and because you 're so attached to Falstaff .
I absolutely agree with our reasons for fighting . But given our resources , I 'd feel better if I knew how we 're going to grow bold and strong enough to defeat this mighty and powerful King .
Say goodbye to me .
Oh ho , oh ho ! I wish I had ! You stopped me . If you had n't , I would have filled this island with a race of Calibans .
You 're doing too much to defend a woman who wants nothing to do with you . Leave Hermia alone . Do n't talk about Helena . Do n't take Helena 's side . If you continue treating Hermia so badly , you 'll pay for it .
What 's that trumpet for ?
A servant Gloucester had raised in his house , full of compunction , opposed the blinding and turned his sword on the Duke of Cornwall . Enraged , Cornwall attacked and killed the servant , but not without receiving his own wound , of which he later died .
Between whom ?
Who 's Queen Mab ?
Let 's go find that hussy , Fortune , and and mock her till she starts distributing her gifts more equally .
Please , let me think of something funny to say now ! Smart people who think they 're witty often turn out to be fools , but I know I 'm not witty , so I might pass for smart . What did that philosopher Quinapalus say ? Ah yes , " A witty fool 's better than a foolish wit . "
Please do n't take my niece the wrong way , sir . Benedick and Beatrice have been waging a war of wits between themselves . Whenever they meet , there 's a little battle .
The man who killed your husband , dear lady , only did it to help you get a better husband .
Outside , my lord , under guard , waiting for your orders .
Warwick ! Gloucester ! Clarence !
Go wisely and slowly . Those who rush stumble and fall .
Yes , do , dearest Queen .
You may , sir . That 's a wise idea . Goodbye .
She 's dead , deceased , she 's dead . Curse the day !
Yes , Nurse , what about that ? They both begin with the letter " R. "
Oh sir , sir ! The Sheriff and a frightening group of officers are at the door .
You think my uncle was lying , grandmother ?
For that kind of relief , the patient must heal herself .
He does indeed show sparks of something like wit .
He 'd cultivate weeds on it .
Mine was n't wearing a bridle .
You always loved to tell me I could n't do anything without being told .
Do n't take my love for granted . I might do something I 'll be sorry for .
He has already been named king and has left for Scone to be crowned .
Oh heaven , oh earth , witness what I 'm about to say , and reward me if I tell the truth ! If I 'm lying , then
I understand your kisses and you mine ; that 's a conversation of emotion . I 'll study continuously , my love , until I learn your language . Your voice makes Welsh sound as sweet as the most eloquently written songs , sung by a fair queen in a garden of summer flowers , with a gorgeous accompaniment on her a lute .
You lying villain ! Both those statements are false .
That ca n't be , my lord . Rumor , like an echo , doubles the size of our enemy 's army . Please , your highness , go to bed . I swear on my soul that the army you 've already sent out can win this battle easily . And here 's more good news : I 've heard for sure that Glendower is dead . You 've been ill for two weeks now , your majesty . Keeping such irregular hours will surely make things worse .
Oh , this is terrible ! It would 've happened to me if I 'd been there . His wildness is a threat to all of us -- to you , to me , to everyone . How will we deal with this violent deed ? I 'm the one who will be blamed for not restraining and confining this mad young man . But I loved him so much I did n't want to think about what I had to do . So , like someone suffering from a nasty disease who refuses to divulge his condition and lets it infect him to
These corpses suggest mayhem . Oh , proud Death , what banquet are you preparing that you 've needed to knock off so many princes at one stroke ?
I kissed you before I killed you . Now , killing myself , I 'm dying while I kiss you again .
Tell us what to swear , sir .
Listen . The king is coming , and I must speak with him about what went on at the bridge . --God bless your Majesty !
No we 're not-- it 's night .
Sir , I did n't hold back any prisoners . But I remember this : when the battle ended , I was exhausted with rage and exertion . I was out of breath , dizzy and bent over . All of a sudden a man approached me , neat , clean , and tidily dressed , like a bridegroom . His beard was freshly shaven , like a newly plowed field . He wore fancy cologne and he carried a perfume box , which he kept raising to his nose as he smiled and talked on . Whenever soldiers walked past , bearing dead bodies , he called them rude hoodlums for bringing a foul , disgusting corpse within breathing distance of him . He interrogated me , with his fancy language , and demanded that I give him my prisoners , to be taken on your behalf . There I was , with the cold aggravating all my wounds , being pestered by this idiot . In my grief and impatience , I gave him some kind of answer . I do n't even remember what I said -- he could take them , or he could n't .
Me , too .
Here comes a light ! Here comes a light !
You must be crazy to say that ! Is n't Macbeth with the king , and would n't Macbeth have told me in advance so I could prepare , if the king were really coming ?
Actually , I should . She 'll scream in the streets if I do n't .
Hello and God bless you , sir .
And listen ! They shout for joy .
But you 're not down and out , either , are you ?
It seems that the guards who were supposed to be protecting his chamber did it . Their hands and faces were all covered with blood . So were their daggers , which we found on their pillows , unwiped . They stared at us in confusion . No one 's life should have been entrusted to them .
He 's going senile . But then again he 's never really understood his own feelings very well .
Look at my flowers . There 's rosemary , that 's for remembering . Please remember , love . And there are pansies , they 're for thoughts .
And here 's my mistress , Titania . I wish he 'd go away !
What do you see in my face ?
This is how God forces wicked men to turn their swords against themselves . Margaret 's curse has come true . " When Richard has split your heart in two with grief , " she said , " you 'll know that Margaret was a prophetess . " Come , sirs , bring me to this block of shame . I have done wrong , so I will suffer wrong . I have been blamed because I deserved to be .
Oh , oh , Edmund , I do n't like this monstrous business . When asked the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall if I could take pity on the king and shelter him from the storm , they took my house away from me and ordered me never to talk about him , lobby for him , or support him in any way .
Even news an hour old is old news . Every minute another awful thing happens .
No , we 'll sneak away at supper time , disguise ourselves with masks at my house , and come back in an hour .
I am glad he 's coming , however he 's dressed .
But the story that these lovers are telling , and the fact that they all saw and heard exactly the same things , make me think there 's more going on here than imaginary fantasies . Their story is bizarre and astounding , but it 's solid and consistent .
Oh , well , stay till then !
Three thousand ducats , hmmm .
She was only dead , my lord , as long as her slander lived .
But you do n't have any of the symptoms my uncle told me about . He taught me how to recognize a man in love , and you 're not a prisoner of love , I 'm sure .
Ready to set sail , sir ? The door 's right here .
I swear to God , if I had n't seen this with my own eyes I 'd never believe it .
Do you have the lion 's part written down ? If you do , please give it to me , because I need to start learning the lines . It takes me a long time to learn things .
I 'm glad he 's so depressed . Do n't back out of our plan just because it did n't work the first time .
I do not know that you are as good a man as myself . So , by Christ , I 'll cut off your head .
But will my Rosalind do this , too ?
Look , the precious Desdemona has arrived on shore . We should all kneel before her , men of Cyprus ! Greetings , my lady , and may God always be with you .
Nephew , I 'm telling you . Do n't start the fighting tonight .
Thank you , and God bless you for your hospitality .
Junk , not worth more than eight pennies .
Francis !
Do n't I have a reason to be angry , you disobedient hags ? How dare you give Macbeth riddles and prophecies about his future without telling me ? I am your boss and the source of your powers . I am the one who secretly decides what evil things happen , but you never called me to join in and show off my own powers . And what 's worse , you 've done all this for a man who behaves like a spoiled brat , angry and hateful . Like all spoiled sons , he chases after what he wants and does n't care about you . But you can make it up to me . Go away now and in the morning meet me in the pit by the river in hell . Macbeth will go there to learn his destiny . You bring your cauldrons , your spells , your charms , and everything else . I 'm about to fly away . I 'll spend tonight working to make something horrible happen . I have a lot to do before noon . An important droplet is hanging from the corner of the moon . I 'll catch it before it falls to the ground . When I work it over with magic spells , the drop will produce magical spirits that will trick Macbeth with illusions .
Well , Syracusian , tell us - briefly - why you left your hometown and came to Ephesus .
Come , gentlemen , let 's discuss tomorrow 's action in my tent . The night air is too raw and cold for us to stay outdoors .
I do n't , Cassius , though I love Caesar very much . But why do you keep me here so long ? What do you want to tell me ? If it 's for the good of all Romans , I 'd do it even if it meant my death . Let the gods give me good luck only as long as I love honor more than I fear death .
Find out where the Jew 's house is . Give him this deed and have him sign it . We 'll leave tonight and be home a day before our husbands get back . Lorenzo will be happy with what we 've done .
No , I swear on my honor , I have n't , madam .
You are too inexplicably stubborn , my lord , too stuck on ceremony . In these less dainty times , you 're not breaking the laws of sanctuary to seize him . It 's only a sanctuary for those who really need protection or those who are smart enough to claim they do . The prince has done neither ; therefore , in my opinion , he is n't really protected by sanctuary . You 're not breaking any holy laws to take him away . Often I have heard of " sanctuary men , " but until now I 've never heard of " sanctuary children . "
Yes , Lepidus .
Yes , my good lord .
That 's Claudio . I can tell by the way he carries himself .
I 'm the ghost of your father , doomed for a certain period of time to walk the earth at night , while during the day I 'm trapped in the fires of purgatory until I 've done penance for my past sins . If I were n't forbidden to tell you the secrets of purgatory , I could tell you stories that would slice through your soul , freeze your blood ,
Madam , I 'm a bit like you in that I ca n't tolerate a tone of disapproval .
the plant of remembrance , it will never grow tall enough to pay proper tribute to my extraordinary husband .
I swear , my kisses are heartfelt .
These are beautiful creatures , if they 're not spirits . He 's a good god , who brings liquor from the heavens . I will worship him .
Do you know me ?
Monsieur Cobweb , sir , get out your weapons and kill me a striped bumblebee on a thistle , and bring me its honey . Do n't tire yourself out , monsieur . Oh , and monsieur , be careful not to break the honey - sac . I 'd hate to see you drowned in honey , sir .
Nathaniel 's coat was being fixed , sir . And one of Gabriel 's shoes had a broken heel . And Peter could n't find a matching hat . And Walter could n't get his dagger out of its sheath . Only Adam , Rafe , and Gregory were ready . The rest were just a mess -- but such as they are , sir , they 're here to welcome you .
Why are you defying me in this urgent matter ?
Neither my husband nor the slave has returned , even though I sent the slave off running . Surely , Luciana , it 's already two o'clock .
Sweet Hero ; when I imagine you now , you seem as beautiful as you did when I first loved you .
Who were you chasing with your sword ? What did he do to you ?
I 'm just worried that you 've been cozying up to her , and gotten intimate with her .
It 's a strange snake .
Excuse me , were n't you with Countess Olivia just now ?
Your Grace does me as great an honor as could be wished by any of his subjects . I 'd like to see the man with two legs who takes offense at this glove , that 's all ! Just once I 'd like to see it , if it please God to grant me that .
Orsino , sir , please do n't call me those names . I was never a thief or a pirate , though I admit I was your enemy for good reasons . I came here because someone put a spell on me . I rescued that ungrateful boy next to you from drowning . He was a wreck , almost past hope . I saved his life and gave him my love , without reservation . I dedicated myself to him . For his sake I ran the risk of revisiting this unfriendly town , and I drew my sword to defend him when he was in trouble . But when the police caught us , he was clever and treacherous enough to pretend he 'd never met me before . He acted like someone who barely knew me . He refused to give me my own wallet , which I had lent him only half an hour before .
My devotion --
God give him health . Did you talk with him ?
Look , you 've let your dogs slip off of their leashes before the hunt has even begun .
May the heavens be happy with this holy act of marriage , so nothing unfortunate happens later to make us regret it .
Last night , when that star to the west of the North Star had traveled across the night sky to that point where it 's shining now , at one o'clock , Marcellus and I --
I 'm bankrupt from his never paying . He 's run up an infinitive bill with me . Catch him , Master Fang ! Do n't let him get away , Master Snare ! He 's always going to bankrupt -- sorry to mention it -- to buy a saddle . And every day he gets bankrupt to lunch with Master Smooth the silk seller , at the Leopard 's Head on Lumbert Street . Please bring him to justice . I 've been entered --I mean , my lawsuit 's been entered at court , and the whole world knows how easy I am --I mean how easy it was for him to rip me off . A hundred bankrupt is a lot for a poor , solitary woman to take . And I 've taken it , and taken it , and taken it . And I 've been fobbed off and fobbed off and fobbed off , day in and day out . It 's horrible to even think about . That 's a terrible way to treat people , unless you think that every woman should be made an ass and an animal , and that she should be opened to every jerk 's molestation . Here he comes , with that notorious wine - faced crook , Bardolph . Do me a favor and do me your jobs , Master Fang and Master Snare . Do me ! Do me ! Do me a favor and do me your jobs !
Do you know the boy who was just speaking to me ?
I , Wall , have done my part . Now that I 'm done , Wall can go away .
Good .
Hold on , and do n't act out of desperation . Are you a man ? You look like a man , but your tears make you look like a woman . Your wild actions resemble the irrational fury of a beast . You 're a shameful woman who looks like a man or else an ugly creature who 's half - man , half - beast . You have amazed me . I swear by my holy order , I thought you were smarter and more rational than this . Have you killed Tybalt ? Will you kill yourself ? And would you also kill your wife , who shares your life , by committing the sin of killing yourself ? Why do you complain about your birth , the heavens , and the earth ? Life is the union of soul in body through the miracle of birth , but you would throw all that away . You bring shame to your body , your love , and your mind . You have so much natural talent , but like someone who hoards money , you use none of your talent for the right purpose -- not your body , not your love , not your mind . Your body is just a wax figure , without the honor of a man . The love that you promised was a hollow lie . You 're killing the love that you vowed to cherish . Your mind , which aids both your body and your love , has mishandled both of them . You 're like a stupid soldier whose gunpowder explodes because he 's careless . The things you were supposed to use to defend yourself end up killing you . Get up , man ! Your Juliet is alive . It was for her that you were almost killed earlier . Be happy that she 's alive . Tybalt wanted to kill you , but you killed Tybalt . Be happy that you 're alive . The law that threatened your life was softened into exile . Be happy about that . Your life is full of blessings . You have the best sorts of happiness to enjoy .
We settle a dark peace this morning . The sun is too sad to show itself . Let 's go , to talk about these sad things some more . Some will be pardoned , and some will be punished . There was never a story more full of pain than the story of Romeo and Juliet .
Whatever you do , do n't do this : let the fat king seduce you into his bed again , so he can pinch your cheek , call you his bunny , and with filthy kisses and a massage of your neck with his damned fingers , make you admit that my madness is fake , all calculated . What a great idea that would be , because why would a fair , sober , wise queen hide such things from a toad , a pig , a monster like him ? Who would do that ? No , no , it 's much , much better to spill the beans right away , let the cat out of the bag , and break your neck in the process .
Gentleman , I am not the same man I was before .
My lord ?
Now , men , here 's to happy endings . Every man to his station .
You 're right , actually . Come sit on me .
How can Caesar be a tyrant then ? Poor man ! I know he would n't be a wolf if the Romans did n't act like sheep . He could n't be a lion if the Romans were n't such easy prey . People who want to start a big fire quickly start with little twigs . Rome becomes complete trash , nothing but rubbish and garbage , when it works to light up the ambitions of someone as worthless as Caesar . But , oh no ! What have I said in my grief ? I might be speaking to someone who wants to be a slave , in which case I 'll be held accountable for my words . But I 'm armed and I do n't care about danger .
Stop , stop ! This praise of him makes me sicker than the sun on an early spring day . Let them come , like sacrifices in all their finery ; we 'll offer them , hot and bleeding , to the fire - eyed goddess of smoky war . The war - god Mars will sit on his altar , up to his ears in blood . I am on fire , knowing that this rich prize is so near , and yet still not ours . Come , bring me my horse , who will carry me like a lightning bolt to face the Prince of Wales . Then this Harry will meet that Harry , my horse against his horse ; we 'll meet and never separate , till one of us falls down as a corpse . Oh , I wish that Glendower were here !
Will you join me for supper , then , Master Gower ?
He begs you to spare his life . He is a gentleman of a good family , and for his ransom , he will give you two hundred crowns .
Tell us your name , sir , truthfully .
You call him a cheater ? I wo n't keep an honest man out of this bar , so I wo n't keep a cheater out , either . But I do n't like troublemakers , I swear . I get sick when I hear the word , " troublemaker . " Feel , masters : I 'm shaking . Look , I 'm telling you .
He insulted you , too , my lord . Just the other day , he said you owed him a thousand pounds .
And we 've got good reasons to hurry and save ourselves by raising an army . No matter how hard we try to look like everything 's fine , the King will always think he owes us for having helped him take the throne , and he 'll worry that we do n't feel we 've been properly compensated . Until he finds a way to pay us for good -- by killing us . You can see that he 's already begun to distance himself from us .
Do you know Fluellen ?
Come on . Since the youth wo n't be reasoned with , he 'll have to suffer for his stubbornness .
It cannot be . When I left him , he hugged me in his arms and swore between sobs that he would work to set me free .
I 'll drop some mysterious love letters in his path . He 'll think they 're addressed to him , because they 'll describe the color of his beard , the shape of his legs , the way he walks , and the expression on his face . I can make my handwriting look just like Lady Olivia 's : she
I saw him once . He was an admirable king .
No , no , no , no ! Come on , let 's go to prison . The two of us together will sing like birds in a cage . We will be good to each other . When you ask for my blessing , I 'll get down on my knees and ask you to forgive me . That 's how we 'll live-- we 'll pray , we 'll sing , we 'll tell old stories , we 'll laugh at pretentious courtiers , we 'll listen to nasty court gossip , we 'll find out who 's losing and who 's winning , who 's in and who 's out . We 'll think about the mysteries of the universe as if we were God 's spies . In prison we 'll outlast hordes of rulers that will come and go as their fortunes change .
Hamlet , I care for you just as much as I grieve for Polonius . For your own protection , I must send you to England at once . So get ready to leave . The ship is set to sail , the wind is favorable , your servants are waiting for you -- everything is ready for you to go to England .
Tomorrow 's a good day .
Then I salute you with this royal title : long live Richard , England 's worthy king !
Thank you , brave Cassio . Is there any news about my husband ?
You lie ! Bardolph got a shave here , and he lost a lot of hair . And I swear my pocket was picked . To hell with you , you 're a woman . To hell with you .
Sailors , sir . They say they have letters for you .
It wo n't matter . Let it fly out . No one will listen to it .
The finch , the sparrow , and the lark , The gray cuckoo with his simple song That many men hear But they do n't dare say no to it --
If things go well , bring the crowd to Baynard 's Castle , where I 'll be surrounded by priests and learned bishops .
She never could stand me .
Oh , my dear mistress , I wo n't be able to finish this work until sunset at the earliest .
Where are you , Sir John ? Come , come , come . Take your boots off . Let me shake your hand , Master Bardolph .
She did n't ask anything ?
Farewell ! I wo n't miss any chance to send my love to you .
A thousand pounds , Hal ? A million . Your love is worth a million , and you owe me your love .
I 'd try it , if I could cry " hem " and have him .
My brother Gloucester 's voice ? Yes , I know why you 've come . I 'll go with you . The day , my friends , and everything await me .
Ah , but I know you .
The devil himself could n't say a name I hate more .
Let 's send this news to Rome .
Indeed , my lord .
You 're right , hostess , and he has really insulted you .
Listen , hussy -- is this man one of your customers ? Did this fool with the yellow face feast and celebrate in my house today while the guilty doors shut in my face and locked me out of my own house ?
You ca n't talk about something that you do n't feel . If you were as young as I am , if you were in love with Juliet , if you had just married her an hour ago , if then you murdered Tybalt , if you were lovesick like me , and if you were banished , then you might talk about it . You might also tear your hair out of your head and collapse to the ground the way I do right now . You might kneel down and measure the grave that has n't yet been dug .
I hear his battle drums . Do n't stint on your words .
It 's the tragedy of our times that lunatics must lead the blind . Do as I asked you . Or rather , do what you feel like doing . But above all , get out of here .
A kind good night to all !
God defend and guard us innocents against them !
We beg you most courteously To be patient with us And watch our humble tragedy .
Give me your hands , all of you , one by one .
The moon ? You mean the sun ! It is not nighttime now .
Romeo ! Oh no ! What is this blood that stains the stony entrance of this tomb ? Why are these bloody swords lying here , abandoned by their masters ? Next to this place of peace ? Romeo ! Oh , he 's pale ! Who else ? What , Paris too ? And he 's covered in blood ? Ah , when did these horrible things happen ? The lady 's moving .
I swear , he 's half drunk already . Who 's that at the gate , uncle ?
Oh , that 's nothing , believe me , sir . I 'm as commanding as she is proud , and when two raging fires meet , they end up consuming the very thing that kindled them . Blow on a fire and all you do is fan the flames . But a great gust of wind will blow the fire out completely . I 'm that great gust to her fire . I 'm rough , and I do n't woo like a little boy .
Good idea . It 's very strange .
Listen , if we do this correctly , the men who slandered Hero will feel remorse for her instead . That will be a good thing . But I have an even greater goal in mind . We 'll maintain that she died the instant she was accused , and everyone who hears this will grieve for her , pity her , and excuse her actions . That 's how it goes : we do n't value the things we have until we lose them , when we suddenly rack up their value and see all the virtues we were blind to when they were alive and with us . That 's how Claudio will respond . When he hears that she died from his words , his imagination will be sweetly overtaken by thoughts of her . In death , every aspect of her life will be got up more beautifully , and in his mind she will seem more moving , more delicate , and more lively even than when she was alive . Then , if he ever truly felt love , he 'll mourn and wish he had n't accused her -- even though he believed his accu -
We 'll welcome him too . Where 's his son , that sporting , foolhardy Prince of Wales , and his comrades , who do n't care about anything ?
costs me my life twenty times over . --Help , help , help ! The Moor 's killed my mistress ! Murder , murder !
You 'll have your answer soon . A night is n't much time for addressing matters of this importance .
With anger , with fever , or with hunger , sure , my friend , but never sick with love . If you can prove that I 'll ever be so in love that I ca n't be brought to my senses with a good round of beers , you can pluck out my eyes with a love - poet 's pen and hang me on a brothel 's door where the picture of blind Cupid usually goes .
I think I can handle this mission . And so I commit you --
Get a little sleep .
You have overshot .
Bardolph , a soldier who is loyal and stout-hearted and full of valour , has , by a cruel trick of fate and a turn of silly Fortune 's wildly spinning wheel , that blind goddess who stands upon an ever - rolling stone --
Now , now , both of you gentlemen ! You go out of your way to misunderstand each other .
You 're a liar , you ignorant monster . I 'm courageous . I could shake up a police officer right now . You drunken fish , you , how could you call me a coward after all the booze I 've drunk today ? Do you tell such monstrous lies because you 're half fish and half monster ?
Fine , you win .
This is n't entirely a joke , your highness .
Yes , truly and honorably .
All these quarrels are about me .
Master Shallow , I owe you a thousand pounds .
Tunis has never had such a beautiful queen .
I do hate him , I swear . Three of Venice 's most important noblemen took their hats off to him and asked him humbly to make me his lieutenant , the second in command . And I know my own worth well enough to know I deserve that position . But he wants to have things his own way , so he sidesteps the issue with a lot of military talk and refuses their request . " I 've already chosen my lieutenant , " he says . And who does he choose ? A guy who knows more about numbers than fighting ! This guy from Florence named Michael Cassio . He has a pretty wife but he ca n't even control her . And he 's definitely never commanded men in battle . He 's got no more hands-on knowledge of warfare than an old woman -- unless you count what he 's read in books ,
Then please go . If you 're willing to do me a favor , as an old friend , then catch up to us a mile or two further on the way to Dover , and bring some clothes for this poor beggar . I 'll ask him to be my guide .
If you do n't mind opening this letter , you can find out for yourself .
What can we do for you , your highness ? How are you feeling ?
Today , my lord . And for three months before that , we spent every day and night together .
Farewell , sir .
What are we going to do , Enobarbus ?
She 's Pistol - proof , sir . You 'll hardly be able to injure her .
Tomorrow , Caesar , I 'll be able to tell you what land and sea forces I can raise for this war .
The King does n't appear willing to forgive us .
And I 'm telling you " Yes . "
Yes , and do n't let anyone come in , or else I 'll break your head .
Good evening , Mr. What'shisname . How are you , sir ? We 're glad to see you . God bless you for being here . I 'm very glad to see you . This is just a trifling matter here , sir . No , no , put your hat back on .
But ships are just fragile boards , and sailors are just men . There are rats and thieves and pirates -- not to mention storms , winds , and rocks . Anything could happen . But in spite of all this , the man is still wealthy enough . Three thousand ducats --I think I can let him guarantee your loan .
So young and so cruel ?
It would drain us dry .
Brave Othello , I have to send you right away to fight the Turks , our great enemy . -- Oh , I did n't see you there . Welcome , sir . I could have used your wisdom and help tonight .
Would your Mightiness care to wash his hands ? We 're overjoyed to see you sane again . If only you had a clearer memory of who you are ! These past fifteen years you have been living in a dream , and even when you were awake , it was as though you slept .
Could you tell me how near the enemy is ?
Romeo , there 's only one thing I can call you . You 're a villain .
That 's music to my ears . Come here , Tyrrel .
I like this one . Are they all the same length ?
I 'll have my head cut from my shoulders before I 'll see the crown so misplaced . But do you think that 's what he 's aiming for ?
And I for Ganymede .
First , I 'll tell you what I 'm afraid of . Then , I 'll bow , and finally , I 'll make a speech . I fear that this play displeased you ; I bow to you out of duty ; and finally , I make this speech to ask you for forgiveness . If you 're expecting a good speech now , then I 'm in trouble . For I wrote the words I 'm about to say , and I 'm sure that what I 'm about to say will end up getting me in trouble . But I 'll get to the point , and thus I 'll get to the danger . You should know -- as you seem to -- that I recently came on this stage at the end of some other lousy play , to ask you to be patient and to promise you a better play the next time . I had intended to pay you back for that play with this one . If you did n't like this play , then -- like a businessman who has gambled on a risky venture --I am bankrupt ; and you , my sweet creditors , are out of luck . I promised you I would be here , and here I stand to submit myself to your mercy . Give me some mercy and I 'll promise to pay you back again another time . That 's how debtors do it : they always promise to repay . If my talking ca n't convince you to let me off the hook , then would you like me to dance ? And yet , that would be a cheap payment , to dance myself out of debt . But a person with a good conscience will always seek to pay his debts , and I would do the same . All the women here have forgiven me : if the men wo n't , then the men do n't agree with the women , which has never happened in a theater audience before . Just one more thing , if you do n't mind . If fatty meat has n't clogged you up yet , our playwright will continue the story with Sir John in it , and entertain you with the beautiful Princess Katharine of France . And speaking of France , as far as I know , Falstaff will die there of the sweating disease -- unless , that is , he 's already been killed by your low opinions of him . Oldcastle died a martyr , and this is not him . My mouth is tired ; when my legs are , too , I 'll say goodnight and take a bow .
Enough to keep yourself warm .
No , I swear by my life and soul ! Bring him here and ask him .
The king of Norway 's , sir .
Would you ever do such a thing for all the world ?
Brother Anthony --
Well , give me the worst news .
On that point , our letters do n't agree . My letters say only seventy senators were killed , one being Cicero .
I have .
It wants you to go off with it , as if it wants to tell you something alone .
You heard her say it was n't me .
No faithful subject ever rejoiced more at the discovery of most dangerous treason than I now rejoice that I was thwarted in a damnable undertaking . Pardon my crime , sovereign , but not my person .
Titinius is lying face - up .
Now my friend Petruchio will help me out , presenting me to old Baptista as a schoolmaster for Bianca well-versed in music . I 'll disguise myself in somber robes . In this costume , I 'll be able to spend time with her alone , which will give me plenty of opportunity to court her .
I 'll tell my husband what you 've said , Launcelot . Here he comes .
Since you 're letting me leave , I 'll hurry . But I wo n't sleep till I get back .
Long live Theseus , our famous and respected duke !
Courageous Richmond , you fought well . Here , I 've taken back the stolen crown from that violent lowlife so it can grace your brows . Wear it , enjoy it , and make much of it .
Dreams are a sign of ambition , since ambition is nothing more than the shadow of a dream .
Here 's Romeo 's man . We found him in the churchyard .
The fact that this summer bird , the house martin , builds his nests here proves how inviting the breezes are . There is n't a single protrusion in the castle walls where these birds have n't built their hanging nests to sleep and breed . I 've noticed that they always like to settle and mate where the air is the nicest .
I 'll die courageously , like a well-dressed bridegroom . Okay , I 'll be cheery . I 'm king . Did you know that , gentlemen ?
What a shameless jerk you are to pretend you do n't know me ! It was just two days ago that I tripped you and beat you up in front of the king . Draw your sword , scoundrel . It may be nighttime , but there 's enough moonlight to fight by . I 'll make ground beef out of you . Draw , you affected , preening son of a bitch ! Draw your sword !
My lord , what do you want ?
A little food and a huge welcome makes a joyous feast .
He knows what ?
Where did you learn that song , Fool ?
I have no doubt I 'll learn it , and in a short time , too --God willing .
Your grace , the person who is going to deliver the prologue is ready .
Is it lost ? Is it gone ? Tell me , is it missing ?
Where do you live ?
Let 's build a statue of him , near those of his ancestors !
Everyone who comes to gamble on winning me has to swear to these three rules .
Portia !
Not insane , but amazed . I do n't know how .
" Lord , " he calls you ? What an idiot that monster is !
Hurry ! The room they ate in was too hot , and they 'll be here any minute .
Captain Jamy is a wonderfully valorous gentleman , that 's certain , one with great learning and knowledge concerning ancient warfare , I happen to know from his maneuvers . By Jesus , he will defend his position on the practices of the ancient Roman wars as well as any military man in the world .
We 'll put on leather jackets and aprons and wait upon him as bartenders .
And will you have me ?
By the door . Please invite them in .
I 'd rather hear a piece of brass turned on a lathe , or a ungreased wheel grind on its axle . Nothing sets my teeth on edge so as much as finicky poetry ; it 's like the lurching steps of a lame horse .
Ely joining Richmond troubles me more than Buckingham and his quickly assembled army . Come , I 've heard that frightened analysis only serves to delay action , and delay can lead to ruin . So my method is going to be to move as quickly as fire . Come , let 's gather an army . The best strategy is to head right to the battlefield . When traitors challenge us to fight , it 's best to act fast .
It 's said that no truly wise man will praise himself . If you say that you are wise , it 's likely you 're not .
Can I tell you something , Poins ?
What , are you moaning on about your toothache ?
And it 's good to have joy in such a joyless time . What 's the news ? Please tell me .
Me too , Lord !
I 'll leave you , lady .
Laertes , I want you to hear what they say . Leave us alone now .
Nothing at all , but I can see everything that 's here .
My lord , if you do n't strike while the iron 's hot , he 'll turn everything into a joke and rob you of your chance for revenge .
Why am I sick at this good news ? Why ca n't life ever bring you things with their appropriate complements ? Why is good news so often conveyed in ugly terms ? Life either gives you hunger but no food -- which is the
We do n't have any music that ca n't be heard .
Pindarus , order our commanders to lead their charges a little ways away from this ground .
And you too , sir . Welcome . Are you going far , or is this your destination ?
I 've been sent to find you , young man . My lovely Phoebe told me to give you this letter . I do n't know what 's in it , but guessing from her stern expression and her wasp - like demeanor as she was writing it , I bet she 's angry . You 'll have to excuse me , as I 'm just the messenger .
I 'm glad to see you .
Is the worst well ? Very well taken , I believe , very wise .
It 's almost five o'clock . The duke will pass by here soon . He always passes here on his way to that melancholy place where criminals are put to death . It 's just behind this abbey .
What symptoms , my lord ? She will have a seat -- you heard my daughter tell you how .
He is . He told us to arrange it .
Ah , it 's a shame that a liar can seem so nice , hiding his wicked intentions under a mask of goodness . He is my son , yes , and I 'm ashamed of him . But he did n't get his deceitfulness from my breast .
Oh , sir , I did n't look down there . In conclusion , this witch said I was hers . She called me Dromio and swore I 'd promised to marry her . She knew private things about my body , like the birthmark on my shoulder , the mole on my neck , and the huge wart on my left arm . I was terrified , and I ran away from her as if she were a witch . And I think that if I had n't been brave and strong , she would have turned me into a dog and made me her slave .
If he did n't , I 'm not faithful , trustworthy or womanly .
Wo n't you tell me who told you that ?
No , she 's worse : she 's the devil 's mother , and she comes to us disguised as an easy wench . And that 's why some women say , " God damn me , " which is the same thing as saying , " God make me an easy wench . " The Bible says the devil looks like an angel of light . But fire also gives off light , and fire will burn you . In other words , easy wenches will burn you . Keep away from this one .
Maybe so , but I never saw it . Jailer , bring me to the jeweler . I need to hear the truth about all this .
" Little " again ? Nothing but " little " and " short " ! -- Why are you letting her insult me like this ? Let me at her ! .
The duke ca n't deny the law , because that would threaten the security of all foreign merchants in Venice , and that 's how the city makes its money . If the government disregards the law , it will be discredited . So go . I 've lost so much weight worrying about my losses have that I 'll hardly have a pound of flesh to spare for my bloody creditor tomorrow . --Well , jailer , let 's go . --I hope to God that Bassanio comes to see me pay his debt . After that , I do n't care what happens .
Lucentio , you shall assume the bridegroom 's place and let Bianca take her sister 's seat .
Bring me the handkerchief --My mind is full of doubt .
What , even you , Brutus ?
I 'll wake him , because that 's my job .
No worse than they 're bitten , sir . Their clothes are full of lice .
Oh , dear father , do n't judge him too quickly . He 's a good man , and brave too .
Come on , my lord .
What are you saying?- -Shoo , Shepherd , go a little ways away . --Go with him , Touchstone .
Signior Balthasar , all the welcome in the world ca n't compare to a good meal , whatever kind of food it might be .
Signior Baptista , I 'm actually in a bit of a hurry . I ca n't make this wooing into a daily thing . You knew my father well ; therefore , you know me , the sole heir to all his property and possessions , which I have added to rather than depleted . So , tell me , assuming I win your daughter 's love , what dowry would she bring to the marriage ?
It 's not because I do n't love you .
Give me the vial . Give it to me ! Do n't talk to me about fear .
Prince brags that he 's been a full-grown man since before he was born . He can keep that title , for all I care ; I have no affection for him now , I can assure him . What did Master Dommelton say about the satin for my cape and baggy trousers ?
Really ? But at that point , the king had the benefit of excellent counselors . His uncles were good men and protected him .
Ah , our bride has woken up !
No , but I 've made up my mind on two points .
They tell you the truth .
A long time ago your husband was a soldier in the wars I led . And when you married him and made him the master of your bed , I gave you my word that I would do everything I possibly could for him .
You know too much about suffering . I have news for you about the Prince 's punishment .
Then he 's no good . I hate no-good drunks .
This is n't Brutus , friend , but , I assure you , he is a valuable prize . Keep this man safe . Be kind to him . I would rather have such men as friends than enemies . Move on , find out if Brutus is alive or dead , then return to Octavius 's tent to tell us what you 've learned .
Oh , let their bodies follow , my dear king , to win back what 's rightfully yours with blood and sword and fire . And to that end , we , the clergy , will raise your Highness a sum greater than your ancestors were ever given at any one time .
What kind of work do you do , Feeble ?
The devil has marked Bardolph as long gone , and his face is Lucifer 's kitchen , where only drunks are served . As for the boy , he may have a good spirit on one shoulder , but the devil on the other is stronger .
What 's all that shouting about ?
My good lord , you 're absolutely right , since some of you are worse than devils .
Hey , Tom , give the saddle of my horse , Cut , a few whacks to soften it up , and stuff some wool under it -- the old nag 's got some bad bruises on her shoulders .
Why are you yelling at me so angrily ?
Lead us away from this area . We can search for my poor son while we 're at it .
What disaster is this ? Has Romeo been killed , and is Tybalt dead too ? Tybalt was my dearest cousin . Romeo was even dearer to me as my husband . Let the trumpets play the song of doom , because who can be alive if those two are gone ?
Not for a band , but for something stronger : a necklace , a necklace ! Do n't you hear it ring ?
I will , my lord .
All right Ursula , as Beatrice arrives , we 'll be walking up and down this alley and speaking about nothing but Benedick . Whenever I mention him , praise him more than any man deserves . It 'll be my job to talk about how Benedick is sick with love for Beatrice . We 'll make our arrows the same way Cupid does : with gossip and rumor .
You speak wrongly about him , Percy , you speak wrongly ! He never fought Glendower . I tell you , he would just as soon dare to meet the devil himself as fight Glendower . Are n't you ashamed of yourself ? Do n't ever let me hear you speak of Mortimer again . Send me your prisoners as quickly as possible , or you 'll hear about it from me , and you wo n't like what I have to say . Northumberland , I give you and your son permission to leave now .
For God 's sake , shut up !
And when he laughs , Othello will go crazy . In his ignorant jealousy , he 'll totally misunderstand Cassio 's smiles , gestures , and jokes . --How are you , lieutenant ?
Yes it is , you half - blood .
Are you depressed again ? You ca n't choose your time of death any more than your time of birth . We live and die when our time comes . Come on .
Sir John , Sir John . Do n't make a mistake . They 're the best men of the bunch , and I want you to have only the best .
If you wo n't risk coming to see her tonight , then do n't claim to know what she 's like . If you follow me , I 'll give you all the proof you need . Once you have seen more and heard more , then you can decide what to do .
So what 's going on ? Where 's that dog ?
Oh , for two main reasons which may seem weak to you , but strong to me . The queen , his mother , is devoted to him . And she is such a part of my life and soul that I ca n't live apart from her , any more than a planet can leave its orbit . The other reason why I could n't prosecute and arrest Hamlet is that the public loves him . In their affection they overlook all his faults . Like magic , they convert them into virtues , so whatever I said against him would end up hurting me , not him .
Sir , you 've shown your true courage today , and luck was on your side . You 've taken prisoner the leaders of the opposition . I need to take cus -
" Madam . "
I do n't think about them now . But when we have an hour to spare we can talk more about it , if you 're willing .
No , I do n't hear your friend . I hear you .
The order to pull back has been given , and the slaughter has been stopped .
And buried , noble Tyrrel ?
I 'd be more offended if you were silent , for being lively and cheerful suits you best . Surely , you must have been born at a happy time .
Does that mean he 's lazy ?
Well , that proves she 's in love with you .
Now , your gown ? Yes , yes . Come , tailor , show it to us . Merciful God ! What sort of costume do we have here ? What do you call this ? A sleeve ? It 's like a cannon .
Oh , Juliet , I already know about your sad situation . It 's a problem too hard for me to solve . I hear that you must marry this count on Thursday , and that nothing can delay it .
Please , let 's not talk about it .
Once she had turned around , the noble Antony , ruined by love , hoisted his own sails and followed her like a lovesick duck . He left the battle at the most crucial point . I never saw such a shameful act . He betrayed his own experience , manhood , and honor .
Fine , but you were n't harsh enough .
Will you cover , then ?
Look at you ! You have impatience all over your face .
Come on , you . If they let you off , then we 'll have to assume that Lady Justice has lost all her power . Since you are a lying hypocrite , we must look after you .
How did this happen ? Oh , I hate looking at his face now !
Hello ! Hey , hello !
So is Lysander .
Never ; that 's a womanly trait .
This is all very acceptable . --Cambio , hurry home and tell Bianca to get ready right away and , if you do n't mind , tell her what 's happened : that Lucentio 's father has arrived in Padua , and that she 's likely to become Lucentio 's wife .
Oh , Hal , please , give me a moment to catch my breath . No one has ever fought as heroically as I did today . I 've killed Percy , I 've made him safe .
Ding dong , bell .
What , you mean kid actors ? Who takes care of them ? Who pays their way ? Will they stop working when their voices mature ? Are n't the playwrights hurting them by making them upstage adult actors , which they are going to grow up and become ?
Killing pigs .
By this token , you 'll be admitted to their cell . Get up and listen to me .
and ungrounded vision you 've seen , with its towers topped with clouds , its gorgeous palaces , solemn temples , the world itself -- and everyone living in it -- which will dissolve just as this illusory pageant has dissolved , leaving not even a wisp of cloud behind . We are all made of dreams , and our life stretches from sleep before birth to sleep after death . Sir , I 'm upset . Please put up with my weakness . My old brain is troubled . Do n't be disturbed by my illness . If you like , you can rest a while in my room . I 'll go for a short walk to calm down my feverish mind .
Fine , thank you .
Oh , I know . Seriously , I 'm dying for one , I mean , I 'm dying for a man who has a beard ; I do n't want one to grow on my chin . Is Lady Olivia inside ?
A crazy bastard . Who do you think ?
Did you call , my lord ?
The king is n't responsible for the particular end each soldier comes to , nor is the father responsible for his son 's final end or the master for his servant 's . The father and the master and the king did n't order their subordinates ' deaths when they ordered their services . Besides , there 's no king , however pure his cause , who , if it comes to a trial by combat , can rely on using completely blameless soldiers . Perhaps some may be guilty of plotting murder , some of seducing maidens with lies and then abandoning them ; some , of looting and stealing before they were even hired as soldiers . Even if these men have escaped the law and punishment at home , they cannot escape God . War is God 's agent of justice . War is vengeance . So there are men here who have broken the king 's law earlier and are punished now in his war . When they feared death , they escaped with their lives ; and now where they imagine they 're safe , they perish . So , if they die unprepared , the king is no more guilty of their damnation than he was guilty of the earlier crimes they 're finally being punished for . Every subject 's duty is the king 's , but every subject 's soul is his own . Therefore , every soldier should do as any man who is sick in his bed would do : clear his conscience of any stain . Then if he dies , his death serves him . Or , if he does n't die , the time he spent preparing himself was at least blessed . And in the case of the man who survives , one could be forgiven for supposing that God spared him exactly because he was so ready to die ; now he can live to appreciate God 's greatness and teach others to prepare . By this reasoning , if a son is sent by his father on business and drowns at sea while still in a state of sin , his wickedness is his father 's fault . Or if a servant , carrying a sum of money for his master , is attacked by robbers and dies without confessing his sins , we can say that the master 's business is to blame for the servant 's damnation . But that is n't so .
I flew over these walls with the light wings of love . Stone walls ca n't keep love out . Whatever a man in love can possibly do , his love will make him try to do it . Therefore your relatives are no obstacle .
None ?
That 's the point .
We 'll meet Macbeth there .
You will be the king .
Read the will . We want to hear it , Antony . You have to read us the will , Caesar 's will .
The first one 's mine , so hands off !
I 'm happy about that .
Hands , speak for me !
You have a knack for foul images . You are the most metaphorical and rascally , sweet young Prince . But Hal , please stop corrupting me with frivolous matters . I wish to God that you and I knew where we could buy a supply of good reputations . The other day , an elderly lord on the King 's Council came up to me in the street and lectured me about you , but I did n't pay any attention . He spoke wisely , but I ignored him . But he made sense , and in the street , too .
The one who builds the gallows to hang people on , since his structure outlives a thousand inhabitants .
Caesar ?
Dear son , you 're alive !
Ah , but there is , Horatio , there 's a lot of offense . As for this ghost we just saw , he 's a real one , I can tell you that much . But regarding what happened between us , do n't ask--I ca n't tell you . And now , my friends , my courageous and educated friends , do me one small favor .
I 'm sorry you do n't have time . --Antonio , give this gentleman a reward . In my opinion , you owe him a lot .
I ca n't explain it . It was all silly and so I paid no attention . I saw Mark Antony offer him a crown -- though it was n't a real crown , just a small circlet -- and , as I told you , he refused it once -- though in my opinion he would 've liked to have it . Then Antony offered it to him again , and he refused it again . Then Antony offered it the third time . He refused it the third time , and as he refused it the commoners hooted and clapped their chapped hands , and threw up their sweaty hats , and let loose such a great deal of stinking breath because Caesar refused the crown that it nearly choked Caesar , because he fainted and fell down . As for myself , I did n't dare laugh , for fear of opening my lips and inhaling the stinking air .
Then we 're agreed . Now we need to figure out which of us will go to meet him . Madam and mother , will you go to offer your support to this weighty business ?
Where is that damned wretch , Tranio , who defied me in such a disgraceful manner ?
Sir Topas , nobody 's ever been as badly treated as I 've been . Good Sir Topas , do n't believe I 'm insane , They 've shut me up here in horrible darkness .
Will you be crowned tomorrow ?
He ca n't come , my lord ; he 's terribly sick .
Welcome home , Grumio .
Thank you , my noble lord . Now would you please listen once again to the request I made to you earlier ?
Did n't you go to her for a purse full of ducats ?
Go ahead !
There was no story , my lord . She never told him she loved him . She kept her love bottled up inside her until it destroyed her , ruining her beauty . She pined away . She just sat waiting patiently , sadly , smiling despite her sadness . Her complexion turned greenish from depression . Does n't that sound like true love ? We men might talk more and promise more , but in fact we talk more than we really feel . We might be great at making vows , but our love is n't sincere .
Speak . I 'm ready to hear you .
Look behind you ! Defend yourself ! There are enemies here .
Sir Toby , madam , your relative .
I have more reason to be distressed .
My words fly up toward heaven , but my thoughts stay down here on earth . Words without thoughts behind them will never make it to heaven .
Well , enough about them . --Come here , Catesby . You 've sworn to participate in our plot and to keep it a secret . What do you think : would n't it be easy to convince Lord Hastings to join us in installing Richard as king of England ?
Tut , tut , my lord , we 're not going to stand around chit - chatting . Talkers are n't good doers . Rest assured that we 're going there to use our hands , not our tongues .
You must not go without having a drink first . I think I may presume to welcome you , and they 're probably preparing some kind of feast to welcome me .
Yes , I know who you 're talking about , but he has no claim on me .
What , are you crazy ? You do n't need eyes to see how the world works . Look with your ears . Look how the judge yells at a simple thief . Listen . But mix them up , have them switch places , and do you think you 'd be able to tell which one is which ? Have you seen a farmer 's dog bark at a beggar ?
Yes , very bad .
Your beauty will be even greater than it is now .
Everything 's OK . I had a dream last night about the three witches . At least part of what they said about you was true .
Pardon , sir , I hope you 're not looking for the daughter --
I do n't know what you mean by that , but I 'm sure Caesar fell down . The rabble applauded and hissed him according to whether he pleased them or displeased them , just like they do to actors in the theater . If they did n't , I 'm a liar .
It 's better here than outside . Be happy about it . I 'll do what I can to make you even more comfortable . I wo n't be gone long .
Was n't he friends with all those brawling knights who serve my father ?
I 'm as good a gentleman as the emperor .
So how are you , my pretty little bird ? How are you doing in there , sweet little chicken ?
I have heard a sonnet to one 's mistress that began like that .
sation to be true . Follow my plan , and trust that the actual events will play out even better than I am describing . And even if they do n't , at least Hero 's supposed death will stop the rumors of her infidelity . And if it does n't go well , then you can keep her hidden in a nunnery , the best place for someone with her kind of dirtied reputation -- away from the public 's eyes , tongues , mind , and insults .
Yes , quite a large one , with many cells and dungeons , Denmark being one of the worst .
I 'm here , here ! For heaven 's sake , help me !
Let 's put Goneril on trial first . There she is . I hereby swear before this honored assembly that she kicked her father when he was down .
As you please . I 'll pretend to be a conscious stone , and think without speaking .
You evil thief , where have you hidden my daughter ? You devil , you 've put a spell on her ! Anybody with eyes could tell you that a beautiful and happy young girl like her , who 's refused to marry all of the handsome young men of the city , would n't run off with a black thing like you unless she 'd been bewitched . You 're something to fear , not to love . It 's obvious to everyone that you 've tricked her , drugged her , or kidnapped her . That 's probably what happened , so I 'm arresting you . --Arrest this man as a practitioner of black magic . Grab him . If he struggles , use force !
Iago , give these letters to the ship 's captain who brought me here , and ask him to pay my respects to the Senate of Venice . Now that 's done , I 'm going to walk on the fortification walls . Look for me there when you come back .
Sir , do you know who I am ?
Letters from him ? Why is n't he here in person ?
And trust me , love , you look pale to me too . Sadness takes away our color . Goodbye , Goodbye !
Come on , my dear Greek philosopher .
Right .
It 's good we 're doing this .
Yes , eventually , but as the proverb goes , " While the grass grows ... " But that 's a tired old proverb . Oh , the recorders ! Let me see one . Why are you hovering so close , as if you want to ambush me ?
I am , my lord . But I wo n't be there for long . I 'll be off before you are .
I 've almost forgotten what fear feels like . There was a time when I would have been terrified by a shriek in the night , and the hair on my skin would have stood up when I heard a ghost story . But now I 've had my fill of real horrors . Horrible things are so familiar that they ca n't startle me .
Yes , what about him ?
Can I go away while my heart stays here ? I have to go back to where my heart is .
They 're retreating , sir , and our superiority indicates a clear victory .
I 'll have you whipped with wire and soaked in brine like a pickle , making your pain linger .
Not the time I saw it .
Take some time to think about this . By the time of the next new moon -- the day when Hippolyta and I will be married -- be ready either to be executed for disobeying your father , to marry Demetrius as your father wishes , or to take a vow to spend the rest of your life as a virgin priestess of the moon goddess .
How are you , Hero ?
But sir , you need to get her father 's consent as well as her love . And to that end , as I explained to your worship , I 'm looking for a man -- any man , it does n't matter ; we 'll suit him to our purpose -- who can pretend to be your father , Vincentio . And he 'll guarantee the dowry -- for even more money than I 've promised on your behalf . This way , you 'll get your wish and marry sweet Bianca with her father 's consent and with the least possible hassle .
Watch your tongue ! Have you no shame ?
Oh God , I have a soul that predicts evil things ! Now that you are down there , you look like someone dead in the bottom of a tomb . Either my eyesight is failing me , or you look pale .
You 'll never be able to bring in a wall . What do you think , Bottom ?
Me too , lieutenant .
Hey , what 's this , Adam ? No braver than this ? Live a little , be comforted a little , cheer up a little . If I can find any animal in this wild forest , I 'll either be food for it or bring it as food for you . You 're not as close to death as you think you are . For my sake , make yourself comfortable ; keep death at arm 's length for a while . I 'll be back soon , and if I have n't brought you anything to eat , I will give you permission to die . But if you die before I return , you 'll have made a mockery of my efforts . There we go ! You look happier already , and I 'll be back quickly . But you 're lying out in the cold . Come , I 'll carry you to shelter . And you wo n't die for lack of dinner , if there 's anything at all to eat in this desert-like forest . Cheer up , good Adam .
Madam !
Getting rid of the beard definitely makes him look younger .
And the boys are winning so far ?
Look , here he comes .
Listen , Biondello --
So , in that case , tell me who 's next in line to inherit the kingdom of Naples ?
Tie him up ! Tie him up ! Keep him away from me !
I think you must have that disease as well , because you 're not hearing a word I 'm saying .
But who is this person , sir ?
She 's a good girl , quiet and obedient . She blushes at the slightest thing . And you want me to believe that despite her young age and proper upbringing she fell in love with a man she 'd be afraid to look at ? The very thought of it is ridiculous . You 'd have to be stupid to think that someone so perfect could make such an unnatural mistake as that . The devil must be behind this . Therefore I say again that he must have used some powerful drug or magic potion on her .
My lord , please go inside here .
Do that , my friend .
Who calls so coldly ?
Listen , listen ! I hear The tune of the strutting rooster Who cries cock - a - doodle - doo .
Bonos dies , Sir Toby . As the old hermit of Prague , who could n't read or write , said very wittily to a niece of King Gorboduc , " Whatever is , is . " So since I 'm Mr. Priest , I 'm Mr. Priest . Because is n't " that " " that , " and is n't " is " " is " ?
If I do n't , I hope you do . Or else you 'll leave without your money .
Oh , I 'd kill that bastard Cassio forty thousand times if I could ! Killing him once is not enough revenge . Now I see it 's true . Oh , Iago , all the love I felt is gone , vanished in the wind . Welcome , hatred and vengeance ! Get out of my heart , love ! My heart feels like it 's full of poisonous snakes !
What 's going on , my lord ? Why are you keeping to yourself , with only your sad thoughts to keep you company ? Those thoughts should have died when you killed the men you 're thinking about . If you ca n't fix it , you should n't give it a second thought . What 's done is done .
How is your Highness ? Let me lick your shoe . I 'll never serve that guy there . He 's not courageous like you .
A lover who kills himself very nobly for love .
Madam , I hope you do n't mind my saying that I admire your noble respect for friendship , which you show in letting your husband go off to help his friend like this . If you only knew the man you 're helping out , and what a faithful gentleman he is and how much he loves your husband , I know you 'd be even prouder of your kindness than you normally might be .
What do you want from me , my good man ?
I ca n't promise that love wo n't transform me , but I can promise you this : until I truly fall in love , a woman will never make me act like such a fool . A beautiful woman comes along , but I 'm unmoved . A wise woman turns up , but I 'm unmoved . A virtuous woman appears , but I 'm unmoved . I refuse to fall in love until all three qualities unite in a single woman . She must be rich , certainly , and smart , or I 'll have nothing to do with her . She has to be virtuous , or I 'll never bid on her ; beautiful , or I wo n't bother to look at her . Mild - mannered , or else she should stay away from me . Noble , or I wo n't have her even if she 's an angel . She must be well spoken , an excellent musician , and her hair should be -- well , I suppose the color does n't matter . Ha ! Look , it 's the Prince and Mr. Love . I 'll hide in the arbor .
Carthage ?
I 'm smart enough to find the logs myself without bothering Peter .
Is n't this your son , my lord ?
No , I live by the church because I live in a house , and my house is by the church .
Kiss me , Doll .
Your misery will make them sharp and piercing like mine .
Whenever you like .
He looked more sad than angry .
Good night , brother . Tomorrow is the day .
Kill Claudio .
He has .
Who did it ?
Where did she die ?
Let 's go to the platform where we 'll stand guard . Come on .
March 15th has come .
But who 's with him ?
Nobody I care about more than myself . You 're a king 's advisor . If you can order the storm to calm down , we can all put down our ropes and rest . Go ahead , use your authority . If you ca n't do it , be grateful you 've lived this long and go wait to die in your cabin , if it comes to that . --Harder , men ! --Now get out of our way , I 'm telling you .
Who does it gallop for ?
And I hope he 's studying his music like he 's supposed to .
Calm down , sir , please . I hope there 's been a misunderstanding . It 's more likely that you do n't know how to appreciate her than that she 'd ever fail in her duties as a daughter .
With a doctor 's help he might recover and become an ass again .
Was he sent by Count Orsino ?
I 've already been pricked well enough , thanks . You could have left me alone . My old lady 's in trouble now : she wo n't have anyone to do her husbandry or her housework . You did n't have to prick me ; there are pricked than me .
Hey , you ! What are you making here ?
For God 's sake , would someone bring me a mug of beer !
Where else should his eyes be , if not in his head ? He 'd be quite a monster if his eyes were in his tail .
Kinsman , I do n't take this kind of contrary behavior from many people . With your permission , I 'll say one more time that when I was born , the heavens were full of shooting stars . The goats ran down from the mountains , and herds of animals stampeded strangely through the fields . These signs marked me as an extraordinary person . All the events of my life prove that I should not be counted with ordinary men . Is there a man who lives anywhere within England , Scotland , or Wales who can say I learned from him , or that he taught me ? And bring forward one human who can follow me in the complicated ways of magic , or keep up with me in my obscure experiments .
Who is this girl you were playing chess with ? You ca n't have known her for more than three hours . Is she the goddess that separated us and then brought us back together ?
Listen , they 've spotted another ship !
Look at yourself , devilish shrew ! A woman deformed by hatred and rage is more horrifying than the devil ! -- at least the devil is supposed to look that way .
I told him that . He says he 'll stand at your door like a signpost or a bench until he speaks with you .
No one bears sorrow better than me . Portia is dead .
Oh , Antony , even if you 've taken my father 's house , what is that to me ? We 're friends ! Come , this way to the rowboat .
They do n't even give us a bathroom . So we pee in the fireplace , and you know that urine breeds fleas like nobody 's business .
What 's that , my lord ?
Be patient , I 'm telling you . You may change your mind later .
He would have ?
My dear lord , you know how passionately stubborn the duke is . He never changes his mind .
No , it 's permanent . Noah 's flood would n't be enough water to clean it .
And that 's how she died ?
Do n't be angry with me for speaking my mind , but throughout Italy , Benedick is considered the best man in looks , bearing , intelligence , and bravery .
I see a voice ! I 'll go to the hole to see if I can hear my Thisbe 's face . Thisbe ?
Do n't greet your bride in these disgraceful clothes . Go to my room and put on something of mine .
It 's nobler to leap in ourselves than dawdle until they push us . Good Volumnius , you know that we went to school together . For the sake of our old friendship , I ask you , hold my sword handle while I run on it .
What a fool I 've been ! This means I 've mistreated Edgar . Dear God , forgive me . Let him be well !
Well , God give him a speedy recovery . Please , let me speak with you .
I thought I had escaped from the Tower and was on a ship to France with my brother Richard , who persuaded me to leave my cabin and walk on deck with him . Looking toward England , we reminisced about the countless frightening experiences we 'd had in the wars between the Yorks and the Lancasters . As we were pacing the deck , which was tipping heavily , Richard seemed to stumble , and as I tried to grab hold of him and keep him from falling , he knocked me overboard into the crashing waves . Lord , how painful it was to drown . The sound of the rushing water was terrible , and so were the sights . I saw a thousand shipwrecks , a thousand men whom fish had gnawed to the bone , huge anchors , chunks of gold , heaps of pearls , and precious jewels -- all scattered on the bottom of the sea .
Then I hope night shadows your day , and death takes your life !
Well then , that 's the biggest mistake of all . The man should be inside the lantern . How else is he the " man in the moon " ?
Well , I 'm certainly not John of Gaunt , your grandfather , but I 'm no coward , Hal .
Brother , you 've made a mistake . The king himself noticed your hatred toward my children , my brothers , and myself . No one had to point it out to him -- it 's obvious . He asked people to visit him . He wanted to find out the reason for your ill will , so he could do something about it .
I wish I 'd been there .
Honest to God , where 's the sexton ? He should write down that the Prince 's officer was called a fool . Come on , tie them up . You 're a nasty little stinker !
Go to bed , and sleep .
story of how we fell in love , and what drugs , charms , spells , and powerful magic -- because that 's what I 'm being accused of --I used to win his daughter .
Oh , what a bloody end to all this !
I ca n't believe that . She 's not that kind of woman . She 's very moral .
I 'm only crazy sometimes . At other times , I know what 's what .
I 'm used to telling the truth , sir , and I have to say that I 've seen better faces than those I see here .
Has it been decided that Richard will be Protector ?
Why the cub and not the lion ?
A basting .
But here comes Antony .
We 'll dance after the wedding .
She 's the devil .
Then meet me right away at the notary 's . Give him the instructions for our amusing little contract , and I 'll go get the money for you right away . I need to check in at home first , because one of my careless servants is in charge right now . I 'll see you soon .
Here 's the document . Read it in your free time . But do you want to hear what I did then ?
What did they do wrong ?
Here come the heavy-hearted children of dead Harry . If only the living Harry had the character of the worst of these three young men . Then a lot of noblemen would remain secure , instead of having to step aside to make room for lowlifes .
In that case , if I can wear a mask , let me play Thisbe too ! I 'll be Pyramus first : " Thisne , Thisne ! " --And then in falsetto : " Ah , Pyramus , my dear lover ! I 'm your dear Thisbe , your dear lady ! "
Why are you still so gloomy , with a cloud hanging over you ?
Well said , you excellent Scotsman . If people these days did n't confuse the truth with flattery , I would praise you highly . No other soldier so newly tested in battle would have gained such a widespread reputation . God knows , I do n't flatter : I hate people who give out praise too easily . But you have a place in my heart that no other man has . Make me prove it ; try me .
Who ? Me , a robber ? Me , a thief ? Not me . No way .
Go , Gratiano , run and catch up with him . Give him the ring , and take him to Antonio 's house if you can . Go quickly .
No , you ca n't sign a contract like that for me ! I 'd rather go without the money .
Mistress , think about your end -- beware of your death ! Or as the parrot says : " Beware of the rope 's end , " and watch out for a hanging .
It 's after six o'clock , my lord , when you said our work would be finished .
If you do intend to live , then mourn . If you 're going to die , be quick about it so you can catch the king 's departing soul or follow him , like obedient subjects , to his new kingdom of endless night .
Oh that great , funny guy , Bottom ! He would have gotten a pension of six pence a day for his whole life . Six pence a day would 've been forced on him . I 'll be damned if the duke would n't have given him six pence a day for playing Pyramus .
Come to think of it , I thought I felt a scab there .
I 've done everything you accuse me of -- and more , much more . You 'll find out everything in due time . It 's all over now , and so am I. But who are you , you who 've managed to defeat me ? If you 're a nobleman , I forgive you .
Really , I 'm afraid you are . I hope you remember that I said all this because I love you . But I see you 're troubled . Please do n't take what I said more seriously than it deserves to be taken .
such glory that I 'll dazzle all the eyes of France . I 'll shine so brightly that even the Dauphin will be struck blind . And tell the laughing prince that this joke of his has transformed his tennis balls into cannon balls , and the destructive vengeance they bring with them will be his responsibility . His mocking will mock many thousands of widows out of their husbands . It will mock mothers out of their sons , and mock castles down . There are people yet unborn and unconceived who will have reason to curse the Dauphin 's scorn . But all this lies with God , to whom I do appeal . In God 's name , inform the Dauphin I am coming , to avenge myself and to put forth my rightful hand in a sanctified cause . So go in peace . And tell the Dauphin his joke will look pretty stupid when thousands more weep than ever laughed at it . Give them safe conduct . --Farewell .
Wake up the moon goddess with a hymn ! Get her attention and draw her home with music .
What the hell have you got there ? Apple johns ? You know Sir John ca n't stand apple johns .
My life and my plans completely depend on how today 's battle ends .
Tonight , I say .
Send for the Count . Go tell him about this . I 'll make this wedding happen tomorrow morning .
I 've outshot you , and not for the first time .
Donalbain .
Here comes young Mr. Ganymede , my new mistress 's brother .
I 'll help you through this business .
What 's the news , brave soldier ?
What does this say ? " This box was tested in the fire seven times . The person who never makes a wrong choice Has wisdom that will stand the test . Some people kiss shadows . They only feel the shadow of joy . There are fools out there With silver hair and silver coins . This choice was as foolish as they are . Take whatever wife you want to bed with you , You 'll have a fool 's head forever . So go away . You 're done here . " The longer I stay , the more foolish I look . I came here with a fool 's head on my shoulders and now I 'm leaving with two . --Goodbye , sweet lady . I 'll keep my oath and patiently suffer through my anger .
Why are you talking about robbery ? This is Venice . My house is n't in some remote countryside .
Yes , for three months .
Please , sir , put away your sword . Please .
Your last guess is right . I enjoyed a sweeter rest than sleep .
I think he only loves life because of Bassanio . Let 's go find him and cheer him up .
Her bottom . It 's near the bogs .
I 've never been more useful to you than I will be now . Here 's what you 'll do . Sell all your assets and your land , and turn it into cash . Desdemona ca n't continue loving the Moor any more than he can continue loving her . She fell in love with him very suddenly , and they 'll break up just as suddenly . Moors are moody people . --So sell your lands and raise a lot of cash . What seems sweet to him now will soon turn bitter . She 'll dump Othello for a younger man . When she 's had enough of the Moor 's body , she 'll realize her mistake . She 'll need to have a new lover . She 'll have to have it . So have your money ready . If you want to go to hell , there are better ways to do it than killing yourself . Raise all the money you can . I can get the better of religion and a few flimsy vows between a misguided barbarian and a depraved Venetian girl . You 'll get to sleep with her -- just put together some money . And to hell with drowning yourself ! That 's completely beside the point . If you 're ready to die , you can risk death by committing crimes in an attempt to get the woman you want . Do n't just give up on her and drown yourself .
It 's not true , sir . Your son is out in the sun .
Look , look ! Oh , what a sad day !
Love ? His feelings do n't move in that direction . And his words , although they were a little disorganized , were n't crazy . No , his sadness is hatching something , like a hen does sitting on an egg . What hatches very well may be dangerous . So to prevent any harm being done , I 've made a quick executive decision : he 'll be sent to England to try to get back the money they owe us . With any luck , the sea and new countries will push out these thoughts that have somehow taken root in his mind . What do you think of this plan ?
Come , help me bang on the door , master . Well done ! We answered them , blow for blow .
I think it 's later than that , sir .
Welcome , sweet prince , to London , the capital of the king .
It 's him , it 's him .
Sirrah , you Sirrah , what did the doctor say about my urine ?
Roderigo 's been killed ? And Cassio 's killed ?
Oh Hero , you could have equaled the mythical Hero if only half your outward beauty matched your inner thoughts and desires ! Goodbye , beautiful sinner . Goodbye to your pure wickedness and your wicked purity . Because of you , I 'll keep myself away from love . I 'll hang suspicion on my eyelids , so that all the beautiful things I see are transformed into dangers and are never able to trick me again .
Their various personalities grate on one another . Lepidus cries , " No more arguing ! " and then when they agree he resigns himself to drink .
Just listen a little more , and I 'll bring you up to date about the present situation , which is the whole reason I 'm telling you this story in the first place .
Good night , sir . My Octavia , do n't believe everything you hear about me . I have n't always lived a conventional life , but the future will be by the book . Good night , dear lady . Good night , sir .
That 's enough . My wife 's coming .
Old man , your love is ice .
What did he say ?
Covered with sweet flowers Which did not fall to the ground In true - love showers .
What 's going on ? Whose horse died ? What 's the matter ?
That must be because you 're so ambitious . It 's too small for your large mind .
Ever since you lost yours . Does n't my wit suit me well ?
I 'll tell you . Her barge looked like a golden throne upon the waves , burning bright with the sun 's reflections . The rear deck was covered with hammered gold . The sails were dyed purple , and they were perfumed so heavily that they made the air seem dizzy with love . The oars were made of silver , and the oarsmen rowed in time to flute music . As the oars beat the water , the waves seemed to speed up as if excited by lust . Cleopatra 's appearance was indescribable . As she reclined under a canopy woven from gold thread , she was more beautiful than any artist 's idealized portrait of the goddess Venus . Pretty , Cupid - like boys stood on either side of her , smiling and cooling her with multicolored fans , which seemed to fan the flames in her cheeks even as they cooled them , undoing what they did .
That 's all I want , and I 'll do anything to accomplish it .
Callow youth , you do n't yet know how to love !
Go lodge a complaint about this with the duke .
Is that possible ?
I 'll go ask questions everywhere .
If she gave you as much lip as she gives me , you 'd be sick of her by now .
Gratiano talks more nonsense than any other man in Venice . His point is always like a needle in a haystack -- you look for it all day , and when you find it you realize it was n't worth the trouble .
Well , I 'm going to break in . Go get me a crow .
Of course . You sell fish .
To this day , the kings of France follow this unspoken rule , even though they point to this Salic law to bar your Highness from inheriting it through the female line . They prefer to obscure matters rather than reveal how corrupt their own claims to the French crown are . They usurped that crown from you and your ancestors .
Listen , I hear them .
Actually , my lord , my mother cried when she was giving birth to me . But then a star danced in the sky , and that 's the moment I was born . --Kinsmen , I 'm off .
Solus , you unspeakable dog ? You loathsome snake , I throw your solus in that weird face of yours , in your teeth and your throat and in your hateful lungs , and even worse , in your nasty mouth ! Shove that solus into your bowels , because I can take you . My gun is cocked and ready to fire .
Sir , it 's shaped like itself and is as wide as it has width . It is only as high as it is and moves with its own legs . It lives on what nourishes it , and when the four elements leave it , its soul moves into another body .
Is n't this Stephano , my drunken butler ?
It was obviously a hit .
My lord , my lord ! Hello ! My lord , my lord !
My God ! What a great man ! Prick Bullcalf until he shouts again .
That 's as good as saying , " , I 'm there for you , ' said the chamberlain . " You 're only as different from a pickpocket as a supervisor is from a worker ; you 're the one who sets the plans .
May God in heaven bless you . Now please listen , sir .
Mistress , both the man and his master are possessed . I can tell by how pale and deathlike they look . We must tie them up and leave them in some dark room .
I 'd bet fourteen of my own teeth -- but , I 'm sorry to say , I only have four teeth -- she 's not fourteen . How long is it until Lammastide ?
Not a word .
Set down your honorable load , men , if there is ever any honor in being dead . I want to mourn the cruel death of this good man . Look at the noble king 's poor cold body -- the measly remains of the Lancaster family .
We 've got two more here than you need . You can have four , sir . Now , come inside and eat lunch with me .
She 's desperate now ; a cranky , selfish hussy . Nobody can change her mind .
Hurry up -- the duke wants to eat his dinner . Make your confession short . He 's eager to see your head .
If she 's cheated on me , then heaven itself is a fake . I do n't believe it .
In that case , I do n't much care for you either .
That 's right , uncle , talk to your heart , like the housewife who yelled at the eels she was putting in her pie . She hit ' em on the head with a stick and shouted , " Down , you naughty things , down ! " That was the woman whose brother wanted to be nice to his housewife , and buttered its hay .
Is that his answer ?
Flatterers ! Now , Brutus , you have only yourself to thank . Antony would n't be here to offend us today if you 'd listened to me earlier .
No , no , until it comes true we 'll pretend it was just a dream we had . But my daughter should know about this , so she can be prepared with an answer just in case . Go to her and tell her for me .
You are an honest man .
Go , get out of here .
In Rome , Madam . I saw her face as she walked with her brother and Mark Antony .
I swear , you must think that I 'm as sinful as you and Falstaff are , and as stubborn and persistent . We 'll see about that . But I 'm telling you : my heart is bleeding for my father , and for his illness . But because I 'm hanging out with lowlifes like you , I ca n't show how sorrowful I am .
When he wakes up ! Why , he wo n't wake up till Judgment Day .
Why , what symptoms of love does she exhibit ?
Less noise , less noise !
You 'll do no such thing . I thumb my nose at superstitions . God controls everything -- even something as trivial as a sparrow 's death . Everything will work out as it is destined . If something is supposed to happen now , it will . If it 's supposed to happen later , it wo n't happen now . What 's important is to be prepared . Since nobody knows anything about what he leaves behind , then what does it mean to leave early ? Let it be .
This is a miracle , if you talk of miracles .
Contagious infection of humanity , give me a chance to condemn you for the evils I know you 've committed .
I 'll do everything I can for you , Cassio .
My spirit friend , Harpier , is yelling , " It 's time , it 's time ! "
And I 'll stick with him , sir .
Yes , my lord , but I can spoil it .
Now the hungry lion roars and the wolf howls at the moon . The farmer snores , exhausted from his work . The charred logs glow in the fireplace , and the owl 's hoot makes the sick man think about his own death . Now is the time of night when graves open wide and release spirits to glide over the graveyard paths .
Maybe not the whole world , but you 'd cheat for twenty kingdoms . But even then I 'd still lie and say you were playing by the rules .
Macduff is missing , and so is your noble son .
Exactly . And now it 's the property of Lady Worm , its lower jaw knocked off and thwacked on the noggin with a shovel . That 's quite a reversal of fortune , is n't it , if we could only see it ? Are these bones worth nothing more than bowling pins now ? It makes my bones ache to think about it .
Liar ! You 've barely had time to wipe your lips since your last drink .
A very clear way , but there is no friend who will undertake it .
Swear by his sword .
Indeed , they say that the senators plan to establish Caesar as a king tomorrow , and he 'll wear his crown at sea and on land everywhere except here in Italy .
I 'll never be able to start if I shut up .
Oh , Lord , if they were married , they 'd drive themselves crazy within a week .
And why do you blame me for loving you ?
Good Lord , what a clown you are ! Tell them to make the dinner .
I only want to deal with stupid fools and careless boys . I have no use for people who look at me insightfully . Ambitious Buckingham grows much too circumspect . Boy !
No , I do n't .
If what you feel is really love , tell me how much .
The Duke 's in a meeting ? At this time of night ? Bring him with us . The law 's on my side . The Duke and any of my fellow senators will take this wrong as seriously as if it were their own . If we let crimes like this happen , slaves and heathens will be our rulers .
What did your song mean , lady ? Can you hear me ? I 'll die like a swan . They sing when they die . Willow , willow , willow . -- Moor , she never cheated on you . She loved you , you cruel man . I swear on my soul I 'm telling the truth , and as I say this , I die .
No , nor would it be right for him to . Though it 's not my place to say so , I think the king is , after all , only a man , the same as me . The violet smells to him the same as it does to me . The sky appears to him much as it does to me , and all his senses are those of a mortal man . Without his fine clothes , the king appears just like any other naked man . And though his feelings may be pitched higher than ours , when they plummet , they plummet that much farther . Therefore , when he has reason to fear , as we do , his fears are without question of the same order . Still , it stands to reason that he must n't betray his fear , as it might dishearten his army .
They were at peace when I left them .
To be brief , the truth is that the Jew has done me wrong , and that forces me to -- as my father , an old man , will inform you --
Let me ask you something in private .
How is my lord ? There are a few men still missing from the ship , a few odd guys you 've forgotten about .
Ensign Pistol , I think I understand you .
Oh , monstrous ! Do you know what letter this is ?
Well , maybe this is Nature 's work after all . Maybe Nature sensed that we 're not smart enough to be having this high-flown discussion about goddesses , so she sent us this fool to use as a mental whetstone . After all , smart peoples ' wits are always sharpened by the presence of a fool . What 's up , you wit ? Where are you wandering off to ?
more than a wounded bird or a maimed duck might . I recruited only the soft - hearted , who each had as much courage as could fit on a pin head and bribed me to avoid fighting . So now , my battalion is made up of flag bearers , corporals , lieutenants , and crooks as ragged as Lazarus in those paintings where the dogs are licking the sores on his body . I have men who 've never been soldiers : servants dismissed for their dishonesty ; youngest sons with no hope of an inheritance ; runaway apprentice bartenders ; unemployed stable boys . When the world is calm and peaceful , these men are blisters on society . They 're ten times more ragged than an old , tattered flag , and they 're the kind of men I have to replace the ones who bribed me . You 'd think I had a hundred and fifty men who 'd just come from pig farming , who eat scraps and garbage . One madman saw us on the march and told me that it looked as if I 'd unloaded all the gallows and drafted all the dead bodies . No one 's ever seen such a group of scarecrows . I 'm not going to march through Coventry with them tonight , that 's for sure . They march with their legs wide apart , as though they had chains on their ankles . Which makes sense , since I drafted most of them out of jails . There 's only a shirt and a half in the whole group , and the half - shirt is really just two napkins sewn together and thrown over the shoulders like a cape . And the whole shirt , to tell the truth , was stolen from a tavern owner in St. Alban 's , or maybe that drunken innkeeper in Daventry . But that does n't matter . They 'll be able to steal plenty of clothing from the hedges , where the washers hang the laundry out to dry .
What fabric do you want a new skirt made out of ? I 'll get paid on Thursday , so you 'll get a new hat tomorrow . Let 's have a happy song . It 's getting late ; let 's go to bed . You 'll forget me when I 'm gone .
By Jesus , I am your Majesty 's countryman , and I do n't care who knows it . I will confess it to all the world . I need n't be ashamed of your Majesty , God be praised , so long as your Majesty is an honest man .
I 've heard that 's not the most nourishing food .
Master , if ever I said " loose - bodied gown , " sew me into the skirts of it and beat me to death with a bobbin of brown thread . I said " a gown . "
If it pleases your Majesty , is n't it permissible to mention the number of casualties ?
You are a vil - lain . I 'm not kidding . I challenge you however you like -- with whatever weapons you choose , and whe - never you want . Meet this challenge , or I 'll say that you 're a coward . You 've killed an innocent woman , and you 're going to pay dearly for her death . What do you say ?
No , indeed , my lord .
I 'll give him equal thanks , so we 're even .
I assure you , my man is as true as steel .
Your wife , Fulvia , is dead .
Call forth an officer .
His nurse ? Why , she was dead before you were even born .
I 'm glad to see you in such a merry mood . But what 's the joke ? Please , master , tell me .
Oh Lord , look how well he 's keeping it up !
I 'll see if I can find Sneak .
Ate at home ? You there , rogue , what do you have to say about that ?
What is it , my dear Bianca ? What 's wrong ?
Bless you , fair lady ! You do n't know me , but I know you 're an important person . I 'm afraid something dangerous is coming toward you . If you 'll take a simple man 's advice , do n't be here when it arrives . Go away and take your children . I feel bad for scaring you like this , but it would be much worse for me to let you come to harm . And harm is getting close ! Heaven keep you safe !
Leave me alone awhile . Where 's the wine for Lepidus ?
She 's a perfect woman , it 's true .
You 're too bitter .
Do you think there ever was , or could there ever be , a man such as the one I dreamed about ?
What 's the name of this forest ?
Then throw away the worse half , and live a purer life with the other ! Good night to you . But do n't go to my uncle' s bed tonight . At least pretend to be virtuous , even if you 're not . Habit is a terrible thing , in that it 's easy to get used to doing evil without feeling bad about it . But it 's also a good thing , in that being good can also become a habit . Say no to sex tonight , and that will make it easier to say no the next time , and still easier the time after that . Habit can change even one 's natural instincts , and either rein in the devil in us , or kick him out . Once again , good night to you , and when you want to repent , I 'll ask you for your blessing too . I 'm sorry about what happened to this gentleman , but
Goodbye . I know you 're unhappy with the glory of becoming queen .
Toward Chertsey , noble lord ?
We 'll soon find out what fate has in store for us . All we know is that we 'll die sometime , which is all anyone ever knows , though we try to draw out our days for as long as possible .
Were you dreaming , Lucius ? Is that why you cried out ?
At my house .
Do you love me ?
I would n't care about my spirits , if my legs were n't tired .
I swear , there 's a rumor going around that you 'll marry her .
I 'm furious and ready to snap . Stay away or else I 'll take my anger out on you .
I hope so too , Madam .
God bless your Grace with health and happy days .
You would n't tell a sick man he " seriously " has to make his will -- it would just make him worse . Seriously , cousin , I love a woman .
Here 's the money you wanted , master . Hey , have you gotten rid of that Adam ?
I hope for my brother 's sake that he just wrote it to test my honor .
Stop the play .
I care about you a lot . Please let me be your servant so I can be with you . You 'll be killing me if you do n't .
Yes , if you kept them together and invested them .
Make a circle ; stand around him .
I took your hands in friendship , but , indeed , I was distracted when I looked down at Caesar . I am friends with you all and love you all , on one condition -- that you prove to me that Caesar was dangerous .
Why , Sir John , my face is n't hurting you .
Maybe she 's just pretending .
Thanks for telling me . Here comes the Duke now .
How awful ! I ca n't remember how I cried then , but I 'll cry all over again . This story breaks my heart .
I 've come to say farewell to my king and master . Is n't he here ?
No , I must let them find me . My good qualities , my legal status as Desdemona 's husband , and my innocence will protect me . Is it them ?
Your mistress is a good mount .
Oh-ho , he requests ! Why , then she 'll have to come .
What do you think , Sir John ? He 's got good muscles . Young , strong , and well - connected .
Oh , I see . You 're more interested in money . You 'll live in luxury with Gremio .
What do you say , Captain Fluellen ? Should this soldier keep his oath ?
Yes , from top to bottom , sir .
Sir , you 'll understand everything that has happened . I do n't think you know now . Here is a letter we found in Roderigo 's pocket . And here 's another . This one talks about how Roderigo should kill Cassio .
He acknowledges that you are the master of his fate , and he requests to be allowed to live in Egypt . If that is not granted , he reduces his requests and asks only that he be allowed to live as a private man in Athens . That 's all he asks for himself . Cleopatra recognizes your greatness and accepts your authority . She only asks that the crown of Egypt pass to her heirs , who are now at your mercy .
Well , get to work , then .
You wronged yourself to write on behalf of such a man .
And this is the man who has now become a god , and I 'm a wretched creature who must bow down if Caesar so much as carelessly nods my way . In Spain , Caesar had a fever , and it made him shake . It 's true , this so-called " god " -- he shook . His cowardly lips turned white , and the same eye whose gaze terrifies the world lost its gleam . I heard him groan -- yes , I did -- and the same tongue that ordered the Romans to obey him and transcribe his speeches in their books cried , " Give me some water , Titinius , " like a sick girl . It astounds me that such a weak man could beat the whole world and carry the trophy of victory alone .
I 've also learned that the King himself is coming this way , or at least plans to very soon , with a huge and powerful force .
We are your servants , your highness , and as always our house and everything in it is at your disposal , for after all , we keep it in your trust and we 're glad to give you back what 's yours .
Even though it 's just a fantasy so far , the mere thought of committing murder shakes me up so much that I hardly know who I am anymore . My ability to act is stifled by my thoughts and speculations , and the only things that matter to me are things that do n't really exist .
I 'm hoping for better .
Oh , the glory of war has faded . The flags have fallen . Young boys and girls are equal to men . There is nothing distinctive , nothing remarkable left in the world .
The island must be mild , and have a temperate climate .
Where 's your master , Dromio ? Is he all right ?
Peto , get to your horse , get to your horse ! You and I have to be thirty miles from here by lunchtime .
Mistress Tearsheet , come to my master .
Let rivers flood and fiends howl for food !
Whatever you see first when you wake up , think of it as your true love . Love him and yearn for him , even if he 's a lynx , a cat , a bear , a leopard , or a wild boar . Whatever 's there when you wake up will be dear to you . Wake up when something nasty is nearby .
You may think that I do n't love you . I hope that , after I tell you my news , you will think better of me . My brother thinks highly of you , and because of his affection , has helped arrange your marriage -- but that was definitely a waste of his time and energy .
We 'll boil you in the cauldron next -- a slice of swamp snake . All the rest of you in too : a newt 's eye , a frog 's tongue , fur from a bat , a dog 's tongue , the forked tongue of an adder , the stinger of a burrowing worm , a lizard 's leg , an owl 's wing . Make a charm to cause powerful trouble , and boil and bubble like a broth of hell .
Do n't delay , Caesar . Read it instantly .
Lead the way . He goes forth to war bravely . If only he and Caesar could determine the outcome of this war by single combat ! Then Antony would -- but , with circumstances as they are -- well , let 's go .
Amen , amen . But whatever misfortunes occur , they ca n't ruin the joy I feel with one look at her . All you have to do is join our hands with holy words , then love - destroying death can do whatever it pleases . It 's enough for me if I can call her mine .
As for him , I never think about him . As for his thoughts , I wish he 'd think about nothing at all rather than think about me all the time .
I 've been here too long . And here comes father . What good luck , to have him bless my leaving not once but twice .
Fool , no one has ever been as mistreated as I am . I 'm completely sane , Fool . I 'm as sane as you are .
Find a time to speak with Don Pedro and Claudio alone . Tell them you know that Hero loves me . Pretend to be very concerned about both the Prince , who has compromised his honor by making the match , and Claudio , whose reputation will be ruined by this woman who 's pretending to be a virgin . Of course , they wo n't believe you without proof . Tell them you 've seen the two of us at Hero 's bedroom window , and then bring them to see for themselves on the night before the wedding . I 'll arrange it so that Hero is away for the night , so what they 'll actually see is Margaret and me at the window , calling each other " Hero " and " Claudio . " It 'll be such blatant evidence of Hero 's disloyalty that Claudio 's jealousy will quickly turn to certainty , and the wedding will be instantly called off .
I beg you not to think poorly of me -- though I suppose anyone who could deny anything to such beautiful women deserves to be scorned . But please , send me good thoughts in this match . If I 'm beaten , the shame is all mine , and I was n't in anyone 's good graces to begin with . If I 'm killed , it will only be the death of a man who was willing to be dead . I wo n't wrong any of my friends , because I do n't have any to mourn for me , and I wo n't have wronged the world , because I do n't have anything in the world . In this world , I 'm only taking up space . If I leave , maybe someone more worthy will fill it .
He 's in Athens , my lord .
I think I know my scales by now !
That 'll never happen . Emilia here will be my witness : I promise you that you 'll get your position back again . And if I promise to help someone , I do everything I can . My husband will never get a moment 's rest , I 'll keep him up at night talking about you until he runs out
Twenty thousand crowns now , and half my lands after my death .
I did too , and he also swore he would marry her tonight .
No , I think we can be confident that the Turks are n't really headed for Rhodes .
Drinking turns your nose red , it puts you to sleep , and it makes you urinate . Lust it turns on but also turns off . What I mean is , drinking stimulates desire but hinders performance . Therefore , too much drink is like a con artist when it comes to your sex drive . It sets you up for a fall . It gets you up but it keeps you from getting off . It persuades you and discourages you . It gives you an erection but does n't let you keep it , if you see what I 'm saying . It makes you dream about erotic experiences , but then it leaves you asleep and needing to pee .
Yes , sir , very well --I 'm here in your orchard .
I swear to God it 's true , sir . We thought you ought to know about it .
The moon 's bright tonight . I think that on a night like this , when the wind blew the trees so gently that they did n't make a sound , Troilus climbed up onto the walls of Troy and sighed for Cressida in the Greek camp .
I hope he 's in love .
Oh , gods , make me worthy of this noble wife !
I did n't say anything .
What are you going to do now ? If you insist on trying my patience any further , then take out your sword right now .
That 's true beauty . Mother Nature herself painted your skin so white and your lips so red . My lady , you 'd be the cruelest woman alive if you let your beauty die with you , with no children to inherit your good looks for future generations to enjoy .
God , does n't he ever shut up ?
Then may your daughters be cursed with all the horrible fates that await sinners !
Tell this villain he 's wrong , if you 're man enough . He says you told him his wife cheated on him . I know you did n't . You 're not that much of a villain . Speak , because I 'm too emotional to say any more .
His nurse , grandmother .
He called her a whore so many times , and heaped up so much abuse on her that good people ca n't stand to hear it .
How can that be ?
Do you want to hear it again ?
Where 's America and the West Indies ?
No , it was him , Messala , but Cassius is no more . Just as the sun 's rays turn red when it sets , so Cassius has ended his life in a pool of red blood . The sun of Rome has set ! Our day is over . Clouds , dew , and dangers approach . We 're finished ! He did n't believe I would ever return on my mission , and so he killed himself .
I 'll do that . It will only take a little money .
You 're a bitter fool .
Bring him in front of me . Let me see his face .
And she screamed at me , right ?
So the lion disappeared .
In the name of Jesus Christ , keep it down ! It never ceases to amaze me the way people ignore the correct , traditional principles and rules of war . If you would take the trouble to study the tactics of Pompey the Great , I can tell you that you would find no tittle-tattle or pibble-pabble in Pompey 's camp . I tell you , you would find the rituals of war and , I promise you , its ceremonies and its solicitudes and its forms and its gravity and its discipline all to be quite counter to all this noise .
Neither would I.
And what if I do ? I make the laws , not you . Who can prosecute me for it ?
What 's it to you ?
They were traitors . " Honorable men ! "
Free from the bondage you are in , Messala . The conquerors can only make a fire of him , because only Brutus triumphed over himself , and no other man gets to triumph in his death .
Hopeless and helpless , I go my way , merely putting off my fatal end .
Come on , you can be as angry as any guy in Italy when you 're in the mood . When someone does the smallest thing to make you angry , you get angry . And when you 're in the mood to get angry , you find something to get angry about .
Grandmother , one night when we were eating dinner , my uncle Rivers mentioned that I had grown more than my brother . " Yes , " said my uncle Gloucester , " Small plants are graceful , while ugly weeds grow fast . " And since then , I 've wished I would n't grow so fast , because sweet flowers are slow while the weeds grow in a hurry .
Oh , no , there he is ! --You cut my head for no reason . Anything I did to you , I did it because Sir Toby made me .
Lady Olivia can go to China for all I care . We 're very smart guys , and Malvolio 's Little Bo Peep . We 're just having some fun . --Are n't I her relative , after all ? Are n't we related ? Fiddle - dee - dee , " Lady ! " There lived a man in Babylon , lady , lady !
And so will I.
Now you see how your fooling gets boring , and people do n't like it .
Let Rome be washed away in the Tiber and let the great empire fall . My place is here . Kingdoms are only dirt . The soil feeds animals as well as people , so how does having a kingdom separate humans from beasts ? The noblest thing is to do what we 're doing , particularly when the couple is as well matched as we are . I demand that the world admit we are the perfect couple or else suffer the consequences .
Gertrude , do n't drink that .
Please , leave me alone .
This is as clear as sunlight in an open field . I 'll do it . I 'll be vain and proud , I 'll read up on politics , I 'll insult Sir Toby , I 'll get rid of my lower-class friends , and I 'll be the perfect man for her . I know I 'm not fooling myself , or letting myself get carried away by my imagination , because every clue points to the fact that Lady Olivia loves me . She did compliment me on my yellow stockings recently , and she said she liked how the crisscross laces looked on my legs . That 's her way of saying she loves me . Oh , I thank my lucky stars , I 'm so happy . For her I 'll be strange and condescending , and I 'll put on my yellow stockings and crisscross laces right away . Thank God and my horoscope ! Here 's a postscript ! .
These ones , then , will be assassinated . Their names are marked .
Please do n't believe the false rumors you 've heard about her feelings toward you , or if they 're true , then forgive her , since she 's only acting that way because she 's sick , not because she hates you .
I 'm after you like a shadow , my lord : I 'll follow you .
Are your men searching for him ?
If there 's any good deed I can do that will bring you peace and me honor , speak to me . If you have some secret knowledge of your country 's sad fate -- which might be avoided if we knew about it -- then , please , speak . Or if you 've got some buried treasure somewhere , which they say often makes ghosts restless , then tell us about it . Stay and speak !
I 'm as crazy as he is , if sad craziness and happy craziness are equivalent .
tody of them so I can do what 's best out of concern for their honor and the safety of the kingdom .
No , it would be impossible . He 's the only person in Athens who can play Pyramus .
Although I still have fresh memories of my brother the elder Hamlet 's death , and though it was proper to mourn him throughout our kingdom , life still goes on --I think it 's wise to mourn him while also thinking about my own well being . Therefore , I 've married my former sister - in - law , the queen , with mixed feelings of happiness and sadness . I know that in marrying Gertrude I 'm only doing what all of you have wisely advised all along -- for which I thank you . Now , down to business . You all know what 's happening . Young Fortinbras , underestimating my strength or imagining that the death of the king has thrown my country into turmoil , dreams of getting the better of me , and never stops pestering me with demands that I surrender the territory his father lost to the elder Hamlet , my dead brother - in - law . So much for Fortinbras .
My dear and loving sister - in - law , I 'm happy to see you . Sir , I 've heard that the king has joined up with his daughter as well as others who have complained about our strict policies . I 've never fought for a cause I did n't believe in . I 'm concerned about the French because they have invaded our soil , not because they support King Lear or those others -- who , I 'm afraid , may have legitimate grievances against us .
And I 've been avoiding him all day . He 's too argumentative for me . I think of as many things as he does , but I just thank heaven and do n't show off about it . Come , warble for me .
You have forgotten , and you think it 's a burden when I ask you to walk through the ocean , or run on the north wind , or do business for me underground when the earth 's frozen solid .
And because people have missed him so much , they are that much more impressed when he finally appears . If every day were a vacation , playing would grow as tedious as working . But when it 's rare , it 's looked forward to . Nothing is as precious as the unexpected occurrence . So when I throw off this wild behavior and accept the responsibilities of being king -- a destiny I did n't choose but was born into --I 'll suddenly seem like a far better man . In this way , I 'll give everyone the wrong expectation of me . Like a bright metal on a dark background , my reformation will shine even more brilliantly when it 's set against my wicked past . I 'll be so wild , I 'll make wildness an art form , then redeem myself when the world least expects me to .
Well , should we hear some music ?
Prepare yourself , please , for this trip . We 'll put a leash on this danger that 's now running wild .
Ride , ride , Messala , ride , and give these dispatches to our forces on the other side .
Lady , who do they accuse you of having taken as your lover ?
Ha , ha ! I love it when you talk nonsense -- that 's what fools should do . Come on now , sing for us .
Now mother , what 's this all about ?
Her father is Baptista Minola , a pleasant and courteous gentleman . Her name is Katherina Minola , famous throughout Padua for her scolding tongue .
Is it good news ?
You have ruined our good cheer and disrupted the gathering by making a spectacle of yourself .
What are we going to say here , where danger may be waiting to strike at us from anywhere ? Let 's get out of here . We have n't even begun to weep yet -- but there will be time for that later .
I think it 's time to rouse him from his trance . --Wake up , sir ! If you love the girl , it 's time to figure out how to win her . The way things stand , her older sister is so bitchy and difficult that the father ca n't wait to get rid of her . But until he does , your sweetheart is grounded , locked up at home and not allowed any suitors .
Please allow her to do this . I 'm not asking to have her near me for sex --I 'm too old for that , and my sexual
Please , Signior Gremio . Allow me to continue . --I am a gentleman of Verona , sir , who , hearing of your daughter 's beauty and wit , her friendly disposition and bashful modesty , her uncommon virtues and her mild behavior , have taken the liberty of presenting myself as a guest at your house in the hope of seeing for myself if what I 've heard is true . And , as the price of admission for being received by you , I here present you with a servant of mine . . He is expert in the fields of music and mathematics . I thought he might instruct her in those branches of knowledge -- of which she is , I gather , no beginner . Be good enough to accept this gift --I 'll be offended if you do n't . His name is Litio , and he comes from Mantua .
Your brother 's right-hand man .
This is Casca . This is Cinna . And this is Metellus Cimber .
To find out what you want me to do there , madam .
Now , herald , have the dead been counted ?
It sure is . The coroner 's inquest law .
If I owe you anything , I 'll pay you in clubbings . You 'll become a wood salesman and buy nothing but clubs from me . God be with you and keep you , and may he heal your head .
Who 's with him ?
Hold your tongue .
A horrible act -- almost as bad , my good mother , as killing a king and marrying his brother .
Would do what ?
It 's the former Hero ! The Hero that died !
It 's Brabantio . Look out , sir . He intends to do something bad to you .
On land you keep the legions and cavalry together , do n't you ?
Do n't you remember how he saw a flea land on Bardolph 's nose and said it was a black soul burning in hell ?
Losing this husband will cause me all sorts of harm .
that comes from thinking too much , I do n't know why I 'm still alive to say " I have to do this deed " rather than having done it already . I have the motivation , the willpower , the ability , and the means to do it . It 's as plain as the ground beneath my feet that I must do it . Look at this massive army led by a delicate and tender prince who 's so puffed up with divine ambition that he puts his fragile life at risk , exposing it to danger and death , for a reason as thin as an eggshell . To be truly great does n't mean you 'd only fight for a good reason . It means you 'd fight over nothing if your honor was at stake . So where does that leave me , whose father has been murdered and mother defiled , ignoring these mental and emotional provocations and letting well enough alone ? Meanwhile , to my shame , I watch twenty thousand men go marching to their deaths for an illusion and a little bit of fame , fighting for a tiny piece of land not even big enough to bury them all . From now on , if my thoughts are n't violent I 'll consider them worthless .
This is healthy talk . Your Honor 's is unhealthy talk .
The count is neither sad nor sick nor cheerful nor well -- he 's just civil , as Seville as an orange , with the same jealous - yellow complexion .
Do n't worry about that . If we can come to terms that are as comprehensive as the ones we 're insisting upon , then the peace will be as durable as rocky mountains .
Titinius , if you love me , get on your horse and spur him on until he 's brought you to those troops and back again , so that I can find out whether those troops are friends or enemies .
Go find out from the Duke of Albany if his decision still holds , or if he 's changed his mind . He 's always going back and forth and second-guessing himself . Come back and tell me what his final decision is .
My fortune -- like that of many of us tonight -- is to go drunk to bed .
The treacherous criminals ! -- Who 's there ? Come here and help !
What do you think of this fool , Malvolio ? Is n't he getting funnier ?
The king sent us to give you his thanks and to bring you to him . Your real reward wo n't come from us .
Young man , excuse me , how do I get to the Jew 's ?
You 're my teacher , so I must believe you . Otherwise , I would have to argue the point with you . But let it go . --Now , Litio , it 's your turn . I hope , sir , that you 're not angry that I 've been equally attentive to you both !
Show us the way , sir .
Well , let 's keep marching and give our loyalty to someone who truly deserves it . We 're going to meet Malcolm , the doctor who will cure our sick country . We 'll pour out our own blood to help him .
Yes , my lord .
What a heavy sigh ! Her heart is carrying a heavy weight .
Please do .
Oh , I wish I had my rosary ! I 'll cross myself . This must be some kind of fairyland . Oh , spite of spites ! We 're
Keep your promise , my love . Look , here comes Helena .
Quiet !
May God give you a good evening . Excuse me , sir , do you know how to read ?
At this moment , you seem just like Richard did when I returned from France to lead the revolt . And just as I was then , Percy seems now .
Who is leading his men ?
Come on , we 're all friends . Let 's do a dance , and have some fun , before we 're wed .
Can it be possible that no one saw them leave ? It cannot be . Some villains in my court must have known about this and let it happen .
He 's so flighty in his old age , as we keep noticing . He has always loved Cordelia best , and his bad judgment in disowning her now is obvious .
Whenever you want , since you 're the one who wants it .
Look who 's here ! What 's the news with you ?
I guarantee you , Petruchio 's going to suffer from his Kate .
But where is he ?
You are my other self , my oracle , my prophet , my dear brother ! I plan to act like a child and do exactly what you say . To Wales then , for we will not be left out .
Oh , you vulgar Assyrian knight , what is your news ? Convey to King Cophetua the story therein .
Well , lead on . Oh , I wish I could know what will happen today before it happens ! But it 's enough to know that the day will end , and then the end will be known . Come ! Let 's go !
Did you hear that ?
It 's time for me to say goodbye to you . It would be inappropriate --dangerous , even -- for me to be seen working against the Moor , as I would if I stayed . The Venetian government might reprimand him for this , but it ca n't safely get rid of him , since it needs him urgently for the imminent Cyprus wars . They could n't find another man with his abilities to lead their armed forces -- not if their souls depended on it . I hate him , but I 've got to show him signs of loyalty
These Scotsmen that you 've taken prisoner --
He is the son and heir of old Tiberio .
What did you say ?
You ca n't mean what you 're saying . It 's impossible .
No , not a penny . Get out of my face . Go play with yourself .
Your eyes are playing tricks on you .
Let 's not leave him out .
Yes , it 's William , sir .
It does n't matter to me . None of these deranged rascals can shake me from my profession .
How is that possible ?
Tell me the English for le bras .
Who 's that coming over here ?
Honestly , it sure looks that way , judging by all the beatings and the bad treatment I 'm getting . Since I 'm an ass , I ought to kick like one . Then you 'd be scared of me and keep away .
What are the chances of his getting better , lords ?
What miracle will he work next ?
Have I waited so long to see this morning , only to see this ?
This is my son , sir . He 's a poor boy --
I 've darkened the noontime sun with the aid of you elves who live in the hills and brooks and groves , and you who chase the sea on the beach without leaving footprints in the sand , and run away when the waves come back ; and you who make toadstools while the moon shines ; who make mushrooms as a hobby after the evening bell has rung . With your help I 've called up the angry winds , and set the green sea and blue sky at war with each other . I 've given lightning to the thunderclouds , and burned up Jupiter 's beloved oak .
As good a wife as she is , that 's how good a husband I am to you .
That 's what I said , my good woman .
My husband .
Oh , there 's the problem .
I hope nothing else like this ever happens to you ! This man deserved his death . And you , my good lords , were right to warn other traitors from trying the same .
It is , my lord .
God bless you and make you obedient , loving , and kind .
That 's the one : Leonato 's Hero , your Hero , every man 's Hero .
If I had three ears I 'd listen with all three .
What are you saying ?
I am sick and sullen .
Hide behind the boxwood hedge , all three of you . Malvolio 's coming down the path . He 's been over there practicing how to act for the past half hour . Watch him carefully if you want to have some fun , guys . This letter 's going to turn him into a starry-eyed idiot . Now hide , for God 's sake !
You make me so happy . I 'm full of joy . Let 's be light - hearted . Will you sing the tune you taught me just a little while ago ?
Okay , but tonight does n't count . You ca n't judge me based on what I do tonight .
Yes , noble lord .
But do n't I have good reason to cry ?
I have a daughter named Katherina , sir .
That 's no lie . They steal hearts .
Evil , evil , evil ! I can smell it ! I suspected it earlier . I 'll kill myself out of grief ! Oh , evil , evil !
It does n't matter where , so long as it 's not here .
Yes , leeks are good . Wait , here 's a penny to heal your head .
Oh , they say that dress surpasses all others .
It 's a very pleasing night to honest men .
What good luck ! I 'll get the promised reward . That blind head of yours was created to make me rich . You old traitor , repent all your sins . Prepare to die .
He 's busy , ca n't you hear him giving orders ? You 're getting in the way of our work . Stay in your cabins . You 're helping the storm , not us .
Either Hugh Otecake , sir , or else George Seacole , because both of them can read and write .
Do you mean what you 've just said ?
You sleep well too .
Yes , my lord .
Sure , whenever . Whatever you say . " Let me borrow your lantern , " he says ? Yeah , right . I 'll see you dead first .
Just listen this once . I 'll never speak to you again .
Hey , Guildenstern ! Bring in my lord .
That 's very virtuous and Christian of you , Richard , to pray for those who have done us harm .
No woman is strong enough to put up with the kind of intense passion I feel . No woman 's heart is big enough to hold all my love . Women do n't feel love like that -- love is as shallow as appetite for them . It has nothing to do with their hearts , just their sense of taste . They eat too much and get indigestion and nausea . But my love 's different . It 's as all-consuming and insatiable as the sea , and it can swallow as much as the sea can . Do n't compare a woman 's love for a man with my love for Olivia .
Good advice , indeed . Take it to heart , Dorset .
Good - bye , my lord . If you receive any more news , please share it with me .
Come along with us , Signor Fabian .
He 's really taken this prank to heart . He 's playing the role perfectly .
She shall , Lucentio . Come , gentlemen , let 's go in .
Take this !
I 'm glad to see you , your honor .
Ever since Cordelia left for France , sir , the fool has been depressed .
Our argument went through seven stages -- watch your posture , Audrey . --It went like this . I did n't like the way a particular courtier had cut his beard . He sent me word that , whether I liked it or not , he liked it fine . They call this " the courteous retort . " If I repeat that it is n't cut well , and he responds that he is n't trying to please me , just himself , with his beard . They call this " the modest quip . " If I say again it is poorly cut , and he responds that my judgment is no good , they call this " the sullen reply . " If I say yet again that his beard is poorly cut , and he says that I 'm not speaking the truth , they call this " the brave retort . " One more time I say it 's not well cut , and he says I 'm lying . They call this " the argumentative countercheck . " And so on through " the circumstantial lie " and " the direct lie . "
I have gotten you an infantry company to command , Jack .
Romeo .
In order to flatter Caesar , would you flirt with the servant who laces up his pants ?
Time will tell what you 've got up your sleeve . You can be deceitful in the short term , but eventually truth will come out . Have a good life .
I have lost my hope of convincing you to fight against Macbeth .
They tell us we 'd be better off in English dancing schools , where we could teach the latest dances , as our grace is all in our heels ; we are no better than high-class deserters .
Please , sir , I would like to discuss some news that decerns you greatly .
But I 've been paid back well .
Are n't you Lady Olivia 's fool ?
I will not sing .
Everyone join hands . Attack our ears with loud music , and I 'll position you for the dance . Then the boy will sing , and every man will sing the chorus at the top of his voice .
Who , me ? I 've let loose once or twice in my life .
Why , what 's the danger ? I do n't value my life one bit . And as for my soul , how can the ghost endanger that , since it 's as immortal as the ghost is ? Look , it 's waving me over again . I 'll follow it .
Listen , listen ! I hear him , mistress . Run , get out of here !
Yes , exactly . Only people who do n't have to work can afford to be sensitive .
Drink when I order you , servant - monster . Your eyes look like they 've sunk into your head .
Go disguise yourself as a sea nymph . Be invisible to everyone except yourself and me . Take this garment , put it on , and then come back here . Hurry , go !
Is n't she a well-mannered young lady ?
I confess my crime and throw myself on your Highness 's mercy .
Bassanio , let him have the ring . Consider how much he deserves it , and weigh that , along with my friendship , against your wife 's order .
I am as brave as any other man . Come at me in the form of a rugged Russian bear , an armor-plated rhinoceros , or a tiger from Iran . Take any shape other than the one you have now and I will never tremble in fear . Or come back to life again and challenge me to a duel in some deserted place . If I tremble then , you can call me a little girl . Get out of here , you horrible ghost , you hallucination . Get out !
We left my brother , Prince Hal , here . He decided to sit with you .
" Affection ! " That 's nothing ! You 're talking like some innocent girl who does n't understand the ways of the world . Do you believe his " offers , " as you call them ?
That day will never come . Your face betrays strange feelings , my lord , and people will be able to read it like a book . In order to deceive them , you must appear the way they expect you to look . Greet the king with a welcoming expression in your eyes , your hands , and your words . You should look like an innocent flower , but be like the snake that hides underneath the flower . The king is coming , and he 's got to be taken care of . Let me handle tonight 's preparations , because tonight will change every night and day for the rest of our lives .
I have to obey . This has happened because I came looking for you , but there 's nothing I can do about it now . I 'll take what 's coming to me . But what 'll you do now that I have to ask you for my purse back ?
But back to that argument you mentioned . What 's the " seventh cause " ?
Quick , quick good hands !
That is why God divided humanity into various functions , so as to keep human endeavor moving ever forward , the one single fixed element -- the aim-- being obedience . Honey bees operate in just such a communal way . In fact , you can learn a lot about how to run a well-ordered kingdom from these creatures . They have a king and officers of sorts . Some , like magistrates , dole out punishment at home , while others venture forth for commerce , like merchants . Still others , armed like soldiers with stingers , pillage the summer flowers , bringing the booty triumphantly home to the royal tent of their emperor , who is preoccupied with governing . The emperor supervises the masons as they build gold roofs , the ordinary citizens as they process the honey , the humble laborers as they crowd through the city 's narrow gate with their heavy burdens , and the solemn-looking judge as he delivers lazy , unproductive drones to pale executioners . From this , I conclude that many different elements can work toward one common end -- just as many arrows , shot from different points , converge on a single target ; just as many roads meet in a single town ; just as many fresh streams empty into only one salt sea ; just as the many radiuses of a sundial unite at its center . Just so , a thousand actions , once set in motion , will result in one desired object , and all will be well carried out and have a successful end . Therefore , head to France , my liege ! Divide your lucky England into four . If you take even one quarter with you to France , you will nevertheless make the whole country shake .
I hope you think I 'm faithful to you .
Tell our top commanders that I want tomorrow 's battle to be the last we fight . Our army has recently acquired many of Mark Antony 's former soldiers -- enough to capture him . See that it is done , and prepare a feast for the soldiers . We have enough supplies for it , and they 've earned it . Poor Antony !
It was love that performed these miracles . Bianca 's love made me trade places with Tranio while he masqueraded as me around town . And now , finally , I 've arrived happily at the blissful haven where I longed to be . What Tranio did , he did at my command . So pardon him , dear father , for my sake .
Why , what 's the matter with him ? Is he talking nonsense ?
It 's mine , sir .
Call off the operation , Westmoreland .
Let me sit down . Oh , Juno !
On the condition that your sister 's son , Publius , also must die , Mark Antony .
Oh , Lord ! The tongues of men are full of deceit .
Please do n't be offended that I do n't want to offend you any more . It 's not fair to punish me for something you make me do . He 's married to Octavia .
Widow ? Why the hell is he calling her " widow Dido " ?
Yes , I guarantee he wo n't drown -- even if this ship were as fragile as an eggshell and as leaky as a menstruating woman .
My mother 's son , sir .
It 's true , people are really worried . It 's hard to find a person who is n't .
We , fail ? If you get your courage up , we ca n't fail . When Duncan is asleep -- the day 's hard journey has definitely made him tired --I 'll get his two servants so drunk that their memory will go up in smoke through the chimneys of their brains . When they lie asleep like pigs , so drunk they 'll be dead to the world , what wo n't you and I be able to do to the unguarded Duncan ? And whatever we do , we can lay all the blame on the drunken servants .
Lead me , my lord ? I do n't need your help . God forbid that a shallow scratch could make the Prince of Wales retreat from a battlefield like this one , where great men are falling and being trampled upon , and rebels are triumphing in their massacres !
The king has been informed of all their plans , but they have no idea .
My sweet darling , do n't lie . You 're on your deathbed .
I think a story like that would win my own daughter over . Brabantio , I urge you to make the best of this . Try to accept what 's happened .
Me too -- otherwise I would have had to duel with Claudio .
Take them away .
Good - bye , sir .
Was n't Don John at dinner tonight ?
Sweet prince , you 're just an innocent child . You do n't really understand how capable people are of trickery . All you know is what a man shows you , which has little to do with what he 's really thinking . Those uncles that you wish were here were dangerous . Your Grace heard their saccharine words , but did n't take note of their poisonous intentions . God protect you from them and from other false friends !
If my eyes are n't deceiving me , goodbye , love .
Well , good night . If you happen to see Horatio and Marcellus , who are supposed to stand guard with me tonight , tell them to hurry .
If you take it too seriously , it 'll have bad effects that I did n't want it to have . Cassio 's a good friend of mine --My lord , I can see you 're upset .
I wish Wart were going , sir .
I understand you by the look on your face . Those pretty Welsh tears streaming from your heavenly eyes I understand perfectly ; I 'd answer in the same language , if it were n't shameful for a man to cry .
Oh , what a horrible deed !
Because she 's been chosen by Signior Hortensio .
Oh , very nice ! See how the young folks conspire to fool the old folks !
I am dying , Cleopatra , dying . Give me some wine and let me say a few words .
Three proper young men , all good looking and with great presence --
But I must . --Bless you , sir . Your dear eyes are bleeding .
Good morning , Richmond .
Well done , madam . Excellent English .
Sir , he told me quite bluntly that he did n't feel like it .
Good morning , gentlemen .
I 'd give anything to keep them from seeing you here .
Yes , for new lovers time passes ten times faster than for couples who 've been married forever .
Good running , Thisbe !
He 's definitely the most active gentleman of France .
My plans are almost at their climax . My spells are working well , my spirits are obeying me , and everything is right on schedule . What time is it ?
I do n't know , ma'am .
Whom do you serve under ?
Oh , he 's good at bending words around ! The fool has memorized a whole army full of fancy words . I know jesters in better positions , with the same talents he has . They also like to digress from the topic at hand by playing with language . Anyway , how are you , Jessica ? And how do you like Lord Bassanio 's wife ?
I do n't blame you . Just listening , I have to school my misty eyes , or they will brim over .
Go home . Goodbye . Oh , and one more thing --
Although I ca n't make his ship disappear , I can still make his journey miserable . Look what I have here .
Menas , I 'm not going back on shore .
No , he was wicked and vile . But Audrey , there 's a boy in the forest who claims you 're his girl .
Look at me , you nasty Scotsman , or you 'll never look at anything again . I have the spirits of brave Shirley , Stafford , and Blunt in me . It is the Prince of Wales who threatens you , and I never make promises I cannot keep .
Wait for me , if you 're not too scared ! I know that 's why you 're running away from me , constantly changing places -- you 're afraid to stand still and wait for me . You 're scared to look me in the eye . Where are you now ?
By the god Jupiter above , I swear " No. "
Go look for him there .
Here comes another group looking for you .
Sir , he may still be alive . I saw him swimming strongly , almost as if he was riding the waves . He treaded water and kept his head well above the wild waters coming at him , swimming with his strong arms toward the shore , which almost seemed eager to welcome him . I have no doubt he got ashore alive .
I could n't stay behind after you left . I just felt a sharp desire to follow you . It was n't just that I wanted to see you , though I very much did want that . I was also worried about what might happen to you while you were traveling , since you 're not familiar with this area , and it 's rough and unwelcoming to a stranger with no guide . I followed you because I love you and I was worried about you .
Charles , I thank you for your loyalty to me , and you 'll see that I 'll reward you . I 'd heard about my brother 's plan and have been subtly trying to change his mind , but he 's determined . I tell you , Charles , he 's the stubbornest young fellow in France : overly ambitious , jealous of other people 's good qualities , and a traitor against me , his own blood brother . So use your discretion . I 'd be just as happy if you broke his neck as his finger . And you 'd better be careful , because if you embarrass him at all -- in fact , if he does n't beat you thoroughly -- he 'll come after you and wo n't leave you alone till he 's poisoned you or trapped you -- killed you , in other words , one way or another . It brings me to tears to say this , but there is n't another person alive who is so young and at the same time so wicked . Because he 's my brother , I have to take his side . But if I really laid him bare , I 'd have to weep and hang my head , and you would not believe me , his behavior is so shocking .
The battle on the sea is almost lost . If our general had been his old self , we would have won . Oh , with his sordid desertion , he sets the example for our own .
What ?
And like I am for no woman .
He 's not jealous ?
Should I tell him to go ?
Nice vow , but what if she breaks it ?
Actually I think I would , and then I 'd undo it after I did it . I would n't do it for a nice ring , or fine linen , or pretty gowns or petticoats or hats . But for the whole world ? Who would n't cheat on her husband to make him king ? I 'd risk my soul for that .
As for Michael Cassio , I think it would be safe for me to swear that he 's honest .
Not now .
Well , well , well .
Why Dover ?
He found it somewhere , then . I never gave it to him . Tell him to come here . He 'll tell the truth .
Good morning , Caesar .
This is getting worse and worse !
What happened , sir ?
But nobody 's perfect , and even the best man sometimes loses control and strikes out in rage . Cassio was wrong to hurt Montano , who was only trying to help him , but I 'm sure the guy who ran away must have offended Cassio in some terrible way , and Cassio could n't let it pass .
Which is not a good thing , if your own rule is correct .
Good Sir Toby !
There !
You think about him too much .
Well , I 'm sorry for you , gentle Silvius .
Do it , my lord .
I 'm grateful for your love . Come on , give us the swords , and we will play this friendly fencing match enthusiastically .
You pretty lovers are lucky you met me here . We 'll talk more about this later . --Egeus , I 'm overriding your wishes . These couples will be married along with me and Hippolyta in the temple later today . --And now , since the morning is almost over , we 'll give up on the idea of hunting . Come with us to Athens . We three couples will celebrate with a sumptuous feast . Come , Hippolyta .
Help me out of here , quickly !
We must not . He is a noble prisoner !
Where 's Dolabella ? He 's supposed to support Proculeius .
But it seemed like he had to force himself to be nice to us .
Then the two of them will both pursue one girl . That will be funny enough , and preposterous situations are my favorite thing .
May you die of the worst disease !
I heard him swear he did .
That man always looks so sour ! Just looking at him gives me heartburn .
It looks like these witches are scared of swords .
This is what I have to say : Romeo has been banished . And it 's a sure thing that he will never come back to challenge you . If he does come back , he 'll have to sneak back undercover . Then , since things are the way they are , I think the best thing to do is to marry the count . Oh , he 's a lovely gentleman ! Romeo 's a dishcloth compared to him . Madam , an eagle does not have eyes as green , as quick , and as fair as the eyes of Paris . Curse my very heart , but I think you should be happy in this second marriage , because it 's better than your first . Even if it 's not better , your first marriage is over . Or if Romeo is as good as Paris , Romeo does n't live here , so you do n't get to enjoy him .
Who started this old fight up again ? Speak , nephew . Were you here when it started ?
Go hide , Adam , and you 'll hear how he abuses me .
Unfaithful ?
Oh , unlucky boy ! Do n't walk through these doors . In this house lives a man who despises all that is good in you . Oliver , your brother -- no , not your brother ; and yet he 's the son -- but no , I wo n't call him the son -- of that great man I was about to call his father , has heard about how well you did in the wrestling match , and tonight he 's planning on burning your house down , with you in it . And if he fails at that , he will find other ways to kill you . I overheard him and his plans . This is no place for you ; this home is now a slaughterhouse . Hate it , fear it , do not come inside .
He 's definitely drunk now . Where did he get wine ?
Yes , I 'll go . As for you , Ophelia , I hope that your beauty is the reason for Hamlet 's insane behavior , just as I hope your virtues will return him to normal some day , for the good of both of you .
What 's the matter ?
" Hang out ? " Who do you think we are , musicians in a band ? If we look like musicians to you , you can expect to hear nothing but noise . This is my fiddlestick . I 'll use it to make you dance . Goddammit -- " Hang out ! "
The only profit I seek is a peaceful match .
Poor Desdemona ! I 'm glad your father is n't alive to see this . Your marriage made him die of grief before his time . If he was alive now , this sight would hurt
So what 's the old news ?
The king wo n't live , I hope . But he 'd better not die till Clarence is sent packing to heaven . I 'll go see the king and , with carefully argued lies , get him to hate Clarence even more than he already does . If my plan succeeds , Clarence does n't have another day to live . Then God 's free to send King Edward to heaven , too , and leave me the world to run around in ! I 'll marry the earl of Warwick 's youngest daughter , Lady Anne . So what if I killed her husband and her father ? The best way to make up for the girl 's losses is to become what she 's lost : a husband and a father . So that 's what I 'll do , not because I love her but because I 'll get something out of it . But I 'm running ahead of myself . Clarence is still alive ; Edward is not only alive , he 's king . Only when they 're dead can I start to count my gains .
Who does it stand still for ?
I wo n't blame anyone in this world but myself , whose faults I 'm most familiar with .
Captain , I have a favor to beg of you . You 're on very good terms with the duke of Exeter .
Run , my lord , run .
Move to the other room , my lord . I 'll come soon .
Wait , you ass ! We 'll finish the play : I have much to say on behalf of that Falstaff .
We should n't make any judgments until we achieve our goal . Let 's go fight like hardworking soldiers .
Madam !
Where are you taking me ? Speak . I 'm not going any farther .
The devil Frateretto is telling me that the diabolical Roman emperor Nero likes to go fishing in hell . Pray to the gods , you fool , and beware the foul devil .
Yes . If I may say so , your Highness pronounces the words just like a native English speaker .
Madam , we have to go : the Prince , the Count , Signior Benedick , Don John , and all the gentlemen of the town have come to bring you to church .
Gremio , this is no time to compete over how deeply we love Bianca . Be nice and listen to me a moment , and I 'll give you a piece of news that 's equally good for both of us .
What ? No. Because then I 'd have to shed an ounce or two of your impudent blood .
Who 's that ?
I wo n't leave , my lord , unless I am bleeding too .
Never mind . I remember he 's already occupied . He 'll be done in time . Come with me . In my tent I 'll show you how unwillingly I was drawn into this war . You 'll see how calm and gentle my letters to Antony always were . Come and see the proof .
It would be better if you actually applied it to your life .
Oh lord , I wish I could have given you two pennies ' worth !
May my wrinkles forbid that !
Not of killing him , because I have a warrant for it , but of being damned for killing him , which no warrant can protect me from .
He must mean shortness of breath , and wheezing .
A reason ? So I can eat lunch . I have n't eaten today .
Come down , look no more . Oh , I 'm such a coward for living long enough to see my best friend taken before my eyes !
Go find him , please , and bring him to my tent .
Oh , my good master !
Yeah , right , go get him . That 's a lame threat from a toy gun , a poor individual 's private displeasure with a monarch . You may as well try to turn the sun to ice by fanning its face with a peacock feather . You 'll " never trust his word again . " Come on , that was a stupid thing to say .
Madam , there 's a young gentleman at the gate who really wants to speak to you .
Exactly . I 've got plenty of those , just like the hangman has plenty of suits -- the suits he takes off the dead men he hangs . --Damn , I 'm as depressed as a tomcat or a dancing bear in chains .
Where 's Antony ?
You 're a good judge of horsemanship .
Or in the power of reason .
My business cannot wait for this delay . Good sir , tell me if you 're going to pay me . If not , I 'll turn this man over to the officer .
Should I prick him , sir ?
Nothing , good sir , except to help Sir Cobweb scratch my head . I should go to the barber 's , monsieur , because I think I 'm getting really hairy around the face . And I 'm such a sensitive ass that if my hair even tickles me a little , I need to scratch .
All right , but I ca n't get over how we lost our wine bottles in the pond --
We 'll have a rematch at your feast on shore .
And I hereby make the same promise -- never to marry her , not even if she begs me . The hell with her ! Look how she carries on with him ! It 's revolting !
Do you see that cloud up there that looks like a camel ?
Here come Brabantio and the brave Moor .
Where are you going ?
I do n't like the sound of " but yet . " It reverses all the good that came before it . Damn those words , " but yet ! " " But yet " is like a jailer about to bring out some horrible criminal . Please , my friend , give me all the news , both good and bad , at the same time . You say he 's friendly with Caesar , healthy , and free .
Most noble Caesar ! We 'll revenge his death .
I 'll go with you . Not because I think you 'll show me anything better , but so I can see the woman I love .
That 's very true .
Good sir , be good to me . I beg you , stand up for me .
You 're a poor man if you 're this impatient ! If you get hurt , does your wound heal immediately ? No , it heals gradually . We achieve things with our intelligence , not by magic , and intelligent planning takes time . Are n't things going well ? Cassio 's beaten you up , but with that tiny sacrifice on your part , you got Cassio discharged ! If we 're patient , we 'll be rewarded with the fruits of our labors . My God , it 's morning . All this excitement has made the time fly by . Go back to where you 're staying and go to sleep . Go on , I 'm telling you . You 'll understand better later . Go .
This is the way it should be . I want to see the count . Yes , alright , go , I say , and bring him here . Now , before God , our whole city owes this friar a great debt .
Whatever I read her , you can be sure that I 'll plead the case for your love as strongly as if you yourself stood there before her -- and perhaps even a bit more successfully than you would do , sir , seeing as you 're not a scholar .
It 's getting late . Please , sir , hurry up .
You 'd be done for then , monster .
Yes , very much like a whale .
Lady Beatrice , have you been crying this entire time ?
Is it on record that he built it , or is it just word of mouth ?
This kid 's learned a lot from Falstaff , has n't he ?
king gave half his kingdom -- have allowed you to do it ? If the heavens do n't punish these crimes immediately , the end will come . Human beings will become cannibals , like ravenous sea fishes .
All right , then . Good night , everyone . -- Sir , if goodness is beautiful , your son-in-law is beautiful , not black .
No , you 're just taunting me . You 'll pay for this if I ever see you face-to-face in the daylight . Go wherever you want . I 'm exhausted ; I need to lie down and sleep on this cold ground . But watch out . I 'll find you at dawn .
She 's got big flaws . She has no friends or protectors . I no longer love her . Her only dowry is my curse and banishment . So do you take her or leave her ?
What are you standing there for ! If you wo n't knock , I 'll ring -- and you 'll be singing along in falsetto !
And this is why your servants hang their heads in sorrow !
Caesar greets the Queen of Egypt and asks that you consider what you will ask from him .
My lord , your promise of the earldom --
Just let me say one prayer !
Yes , brother , I feel bad about that , too . The man who might have kept that title died too soon , and now it is n't worth nearly as much .
You know , uncle , A sparrow once raised a cuckoo in its nest Until the cuckoo grew up and bit the sparrow 's head off . So the candle went out and now we 're all in the dark .
On , on , on , on , on ! To the breach , to the breach !
A worthy fool ! He 's been a courtier and says , " If ladies are young and pretty , they always know it . " His brain is dry as a sailor 's biscuit and crammed with all sorts of strange observations , which he presents in mangled fashion . Oh , I wish I were a fool ! I 'm ambitious for one of those motley coats .
Farewell , good Messala . Good night , Titinius . Noble , noble Cassius , good night and sleep well .
Even if you had your eyes , you still might not recognize me . It takes a wise father to know his own child . Well , old man , I 'll tell you news of your son . Give me your blessing . The truth will come to light , and murder ca n't be hidden long -- a man 's son may hide , but truth will always come out .
And I would like it if you were a bit more formally dressed .
You have n't forgotten what you just learned ?
My worthy lord , your noble friends miss your company .
It 's not him ; it 's the Queen .
Exactly . What about you ?
Right ? Then you 've got to admit that an old man can do some things .
She 's yours , King of France . Take her . She 's no longer my daughter , and I 'll never see her face again . So get out of here . Leave without any blessing or love from me . --Come with me , Burgundy .
Then at my place , if you like . That 's where my father 's staying . We can get everything sorted out in private there tonight . Send your servant for Bianca . Mine shall go and fetch the notary . The only drawback is that , with such short notice , we 'll be able to offer you only modest refreshment .
Look at that old geezer having his head scratched like a parrot .
Stop , my lord ! I 've served you since childhood , but I 've never done you a better service than telling you to stop .
But what 's your trade ? Answer me straightforwardly .
There is your gold . Money is a worse poison to men 's souls , and commits more murders in this awful world , than these poor poisons that you 're not allowed to sell . I 've sold you poison . You have n't sold me any . Goodbye . Buy yourself food , and put some flesh on your bones . I 'll take this mixture , which is a medicine , not a poison , to Juliet 's grave . That 's where I must use it .
You bastard ! Somebody put lime in my wine ! All men are cheaters and schemers , but a coward is worse than a glass of wine with lime in it . A miserable coward ! Go on , old Jack , die already . If there 's even one real man left on this earth besides me , then I 'm as skinny as a herring . In all of England there are only three good men that have n't been put to death , and one of them is fat and growing old . God help us all ! It 's a bad world , I say . I wish I were a weaver ; I could sing psalms while I was sewing . I 'll say it again : a curse on all cowards .
Here comes the king , the queen , and the noblemen of court . Who are they following ? And with such a plain and scrawny ceremony ? It means the corpse they 're following took its own life . Must have been from a wealthy family . Let 's stay and watch a while .
But who was that man ?
Please , calm down , good ensign .
I would n't have missed this even for a pension of thousands of pounds , to be paid by the shah of Persia .
I 'll get my noble ?
This is very odd . Until very recently she was your favorite , the object of all your praise and the delight of your old age . It 's strange that someone so dear to you could do anything so horrible as to warrant this sudden
I think so too .
" M " --Malvolio . " M " -- why , that 's the first letter in my name .
After all , it would n't be the first time that kind of thing has happened . Lady Strachy married her wardrobe manager .
Your children will be kings .
If I were to make a prediction regarding this union , I would n't say that .
Oh , Charmian , I will never leave this tomb !
Since it 's drizzling , stand under this overhang with me and , like a true drunk , I 'll tell you everything .
Then I 'll call you a serving - creature .
Oh , let me speak !
Then I 'd put on a lofty and exalted expression . I 'd look around the room calmly , then tell them that I know my place , and I 'd like them to know theirs . Then I 'd tell them to go find my cousin Toby --
How unlucky am I , having to apologize for doing the right thing ! This is the letter he was talking about , and it confirms he was a spy for France . Oh God , I wish he had never betrayed us , or that I had n't been the one to discover his treason .
No , not tonight .
My lord Prospero will know what I 've done . So go ahead , King , and look for your son .
If we cannot defend our country with three times such a power left at home , then we deserve to be harassed by an invader and lose our reputation as a powerful and politically savvy nation .
Captain Fluellen , you must come straight to the tunnels . The duke of Gloucester wants a word with you .
Today your husband came to my place , completely furious . He took my ring , which I just saw on his finger , by the way . Right after that , I saw him with a necklace .
You got to me first . I was about to swear that I loved you .
My legs may be yellow , but I do n't feel blue . It was addressed to him , and orders must be obeyed . I think we know whose fancy handwriting that was .
Okay , so that 's when he 'll say we stabbed him in his sleep .
Well , I 'll go to Scone .
I am not treacherous .
Amen .
I humbly thank you .
Tell me seriously , who is the one you love ?
The weather is fair . Good morning , General .
Let this anger sharpen your sword . Transform your grief into anger . Do n't block the feelings in your heart ; let them loose as rage .
I 'm afraid my Thisbe has forgotten her promise ! --And you , oh Wall , oh sweet , oh lovely Wall , you stand between her father 's property and mine , you Wall , oh Wall , oh sweet and lovely Wall . Show me your hole to stick my eye up against !
My vision is dull . Are n't you Kent ?
But I can give you more . I 'll raise her statue in pure gold . As long as this city is called Verona , there will be no figure praised more than that of true and faithful Juliet .
Madam , hurry as fast as you can get out of my court .
That 's burglary , that is .
I do n't know , madam . Oh , it 's too terrible .
That 's my brave lord !
And Hippolyta .
Well , if you have to go , you have to go . But listen to me , Gratiano . Sometimes you get a bit too wild , and you let your voice get a bit loud and rude . These things look good on you , of course , and to people like you and me there 's nothing wrong with it . But in places where people do n't know you , your behavior might seem too wild . Please , try to act a little more serious , or the people in Belmont will get the wrong impression about me , and your wildness will make me blow my chance with Portia .
A deed that will make sick men healthy .
Yes they are , otherwise it would be proper for them to suffer salvation , body and soul .
He admits he feels confused , but refuses to say why .
The sunset was golden and left a bright track in the sky , which indicates that tomorrow will be a good day . Sir William Brandon , you will carry my flag . Bring some ink and paper to my tent , and I 'll draw a model of our battle , appoint each leader to his particular command , and carefully divide up our small army . My Lord of Oxford , you , Sir William Brandon , and you , Sir Walter Herbert , are going to stay with me . The earl of Pembroke will stick with his regiment . Good Captain Blunt , tell the earl goodnight from me , and tell him that by two in the morning I would like him to visit my tent . One more thing before you go , Blunt -- where is Lord Stanley lodging , do you know ?
Are you insane , old man ?
He started it , my noble lord , and succeeding generations rebuilt it .
Hurry and tell me about it , so I can take revenge right away , faster than a person falls in love .
Go , and put your garbage back where you found it .
No , it 'd be a shame for you to act serious tonight . I 'd rather see you having fun , because we have friends coming who want to have fun . Anyway , I have to say goodbye to you now . I 've got some business to take care of .
I do .
Snakes with forked tongues , And porcupines , do n't be seen . Deadly lizards , do n't be mean . Do n't come near our fairy queen .
Lucky for him . Wish I could say the same .
Wait , officer . He must n't go to prison .
She 'll be buried with her face upwards , then .
That 's the truth , sir . We did n't expect Mark Antony to be here . Is he married to Cleopatra ?
I wish I could work for that lady ! It 'd be a good way to hide from the world until the time was right to identify myself .
Now I 'm alone . Oh , what a mean low-life I am ! It 's awful that this actor could force his soul to feel made-up feelings in a work of make - believe . He grew pale , shed real tears , became overwhelmed , his voice breaking with feeling and his whole being , even , meeting the needs of his act -- and all for nothing . For Hecuba !
Hang on a second . Listen to me . --Edmund , you 're under arrest for capital treason . Along with you , your co-conspirator , this snake of a woman . My dear sister - in - law , I veto your marriage announcement for the benefit of my wife , who is already engaged to Edmund . So if you want to get married , you 'll have to woo me . My wife 's already spoken for .
Could you really do such a thing , for all the world ?
Look , here comes the fool .
Oh , you 're happy now , but I 'll ruin your happiness , for all my supposed honesty .
Please stand up ! I 'm sure you are n't Launcelot , my boy .
Your grace , please forgive me . I do n't know what makes me think I can say this , and I do n't know if speaking my mind to such a powerful and noble person as yourself will damage my reputation for modesty . But please , tell me the worst thing that could happen to me if I refuse to marry Demetrius .
What money , sir ? I feel sorry for you in this situation , and I want to thank you for the kindness you 've shown me here , so I 'll lend you some of my money , though I do n't have much . I 'll give you half of everything I have right now . Take this . It 's half of all my money .
Yes , my lord .
I 'm over here , you villain , with my sword out and ready to fight . Where are you ?
Do you know where you are , sir ?
Look !
Maria , take care of this poor fellow here . Where 's my cousin Toby ? Have some of my servants take care of Malvolio . I 'd give half my dowry to keep anything bad from happening to him .
Come on , sir , stop !
No , my noble lord . This play is n't right for you . I 've seen the whole thing , and it 's completely worthless -- unless you think their bad acting and their misremembered lines -- which they memorized so painfully -- are funny .
A sail , a sail !
Caius Ligarius does n't like Caesar , who berated him for speaking well of Pompey . I wonder that none of you thought about getting his support .
The money you owe me for the necklace .
The same trap must be set for her ; that 's your daughter 's and servants ' job . The real fun will be when they both believe the other to be in love , without any of it being true . I ca n't wait to watch that drama -- it 'll be a pantomime , since both of them will be totally speechless ! Let 's send Beatrice to call Benedick in to dinner
What , that 's all ? Pay him six thousand and cancel the debt . I 'd pay twelve thousand before I 'd let a friend like that suffer in the slightest because of you . First come with me to church to get married . Then you can leave for Venice to see your friend . You have to go , because you 'll never sleep next to me peacefully without settling this . I 'll give you enough gold to pay back your debt twenty times over . When it 's paid , bring your friend back . Until you get back , Nerissa and I will live like virgins and widows . Come on , let 's go , because you 're going to leave me the same day we get married . Put on a happy face , and welcome your friends . Since it 's costing me a lot to marry you , I 'll think of you as even more precious . But let me hear the letter from your friend .
Where are they ? Gone ? Let this evil hour be marked forever in the calendar as cursed . You outside , come in !
Your royal father is murdered .
The best part of fishing is watching the fish cut through the water and greedily take the bait . Now we 're fishing for Beatrice , who 's hiding right now in the honeysuckle arbor . Do n't worry , I 'll do my part .
Yes , monster , it 's worse than the disgrace of getting drenched and smelly . We lost more than our honor when we lost our wine .
Young man , have you challenged Charles the Wrestler ?
No --I 'll say goodbye if you 're going to talk in blank verse .
And so , on the wings of imagination and at the speed of thought , our scene flies swiftly on . Imagine that you have seen the well-equipped king at Dover pier set sail in full royal regalia and his noble fleet fan the rising sun with its silken banners . Give your imagination free rein . Picture the cabin boys climbing around the rigging . Hear the shrill whistle that brings order to the hubbub . Picture the linen sails driven by the invisible and subtle wind as they pull the vast hulls through the wrinkled sea , breasting the high waves . Pretend that you 're standing on the shore , watching a city dance on the shifting waves , and you 'll have an idea of the look of this majestic fleet as it holds a straight course for Harfleur . Follow it , follow it ! Hitch your minds to this navy 's sterns and leave your England , silent as midnight , guarded by grandfathers , babies , and old women . For what male subject is there old enough for his chin to be graced with even one hair who does n't want to follow this select band of hand-picked knights to France ? Once there , make your thoughts work harder , and witness a siege . Take in the wheeled canons with their deadly gaping mouths trained on the walled city of Harfleur . Imagine the French ambassador returning to inform Harry that the king offers him
If it 's the same one --
Would I be out of my suit ?
I had a Richard too -- namely , my husband -- and you killed him . I had my son Rutland , and you helped kill him .
My daughter is weeping : she does n't want to be parted from you . She wants to be a soldier and join you in the war .
You have already had better fortune than the future will bring .
Get ready , my lord . The enemy is making its appearance on the battlefield .
If I may say so , your Majesty , he is a rascal who quarreled with me last night , and who , if he lives and ever dares to challenge this glove , will get a box on the ear from me . Or , if I see him wearing my glove in his cap , which he swore as a soldier he would wear if he lived , I will knock it off his head .
Oh , noble prince , I can tell you everything about the unfortunate circumstances of this deadly fight . Over there Tybalt is lying dead . He killed your relative , brave Mercutio , and then young Romeo killed him .
A poor Egyptian , but my mistress , the Queen , sent me to find out what your intentions are concerning her . She 's locked up in her tomb and wants to prepare herself for her fate .
Nice save ! Kiss him for that , good widow .
Oh , yes , I 'm sorry , uncle . --If you 'll excuse me , your grace .
If Percy 's alive , I 'll pierce him . If he runs into me , fine . If he does n't run into me , but I run into him , let him slice me like a butcher . I do n't want the kind of honor Sir Walter has : give me life . If I manage to save my life , fine . If not , I 'll have honor that I never looked for , and that 'll be that .
You can hope your father is n't your real father . Maybe your mother fooled around , and you are n't the Jew 's daughter .
Oh ! We 're done for !
If a bloody head counts as a hurt , then you hurt me . Apparently you think there 's nothing unusual about a bloody head .
Iago 's a good man . Goodnight , Michael . Come talk to me tomorrow as early as you can . --Come with me , my dear love . Now that the wedding 's over , we can have the pleasure of consummating our marriage . Good night , everyone .
Go find the traitor Gloucester . Tie him up like a thief and bring him here to me .
I like this girl ! She has real character ! Now I want her more than ever . I ca n't wait to meet her !
Quiet ! Noble Brutus has mounted the platform .
I want the men around me to be fat , healthy-looking men who sleep at night . That Cassius over there has a lean and hungry look . He thinks too much . Men like him are dangerous .
Thick - lips sure is lucky if he can pull this off !
We argued about which was best , and now we wo n't get either one .
Be brief , please , because , as you can see , this is a busy time for me .
Father , this is n't easy for me . I 'm torn . I owe you respect because you gave me life and education . You 're the one I have to obey . I 'm your daughter . But this man here is my husband now , and I owe him as much as my mother owed you , just as she preferred you to her own father . So I have to give my obedience to the Moor , my husband .
I am arrogant , vengeful , ambitious , with more ill will in me than I can fit into my thoughts , and more than I have time to carry it out in . Why should people like me be crawling around between earth and heaven ? Every one of us is a criminal . Do n't believe any of us . Hurry to a convent . Where 's your father ?
If I may say so , your Majesty , as I see it he would be a coward and a villain not to .
Get going -- hustle over to the port . If there 's enough wind for a ship to sail out tonight , I wo n't spend tonight in this town . If a ship 's leaving , come to the marketplace . I 'll wait there for you . If everyone here knows us but we do n't know anybody , it 's time , I think , for us to pack our bags and take off .
Then I guess I was misled .
No , no . We did n't tie them up .
Cassio 's killed a young Venetian named Roderigo .
Well said . You 're a good man .
He is fortifying his castle at Dunsinane with heavy defenses . Some say he 's insane . Those who hate him less call it brave anger . One thing is certain : he 's out of control .
I 'm glad . And here 's to your health , my gentle cousin Lord Mowbray .
You could get sad watching this actor 's passionate lament -- if one of your good friends happened to die right at the same time .
I wo n't be married . I wo n't join my soul to such a proven slut .
Madam , I had a lot on my mind an hour before dawn this morning , so I went for a walk . Underneath the Sycamore grove that grows on the west side of the city , I saw your son taking an early-morning walk . I headed toward him , but he saw me coming and hid in the woods . I thought he must be feeling the same way I was -- wanting to be alone and tired of his own company . I figured he was avoiding me , and I was perfectly happy to leave him alone and keep to myself .
I 'm still young enough to see without glasses , and I do n't see what you 're talking about . If her cousin Beatrice did n't have such a nasty temper , she 'd be so much more beautiful than Hero that it would be like comparing May to December . But , hey , this does n't mean you 're looking to get married , does it ?
My noble kinsman , welcome .
Is this true ?
Hortensio , tell the tailor you 'll make sure he gets paid . Take it away . Off you go . There 's no more to be said .
I 'll limp after you .
I think one of them is nearby and ca n't get away .
Hello , do you have any news ?
I remember you took the throne from your brother Prospero .
Oh , sure , he 's a brave man ! He writes brave poems , speaks brave words , makes brave promises , and then breaks them just as bravely . He 's like a cowardly jouster , who breaks his lance across his opponent 's shield , rather than directly against it . But everything 's brave that a young man does and foolishness leads .
That 's what I 'm doing . But honestly , I should have been a woman .
If you try that , you 'll pay for it . You 've got no weapon , so you 'll have to suffer .
Bring him to me .
him inside and take him to Dover , where you 'll find people who 'll welcome and protect him . Carry your master out . If you waste even half an hour , he 'll be killed , along with you and everyone else helping him . Bring him here , carry him and follow me . I 'll quickly take you to where you can find supplies .
No , let them go . They 're certainly a peaceful couple !
How can we avoid what the gods want to happen ? But I will go out , for these bad omens apply to the world in general as much as they do to me .
Oh , be quiet , be quiet !
A bit of a hurry , my lord ! Well then , good bye , my lord . You 're in a hurry , are you ? Well then , do n't bother .
Yes , that 's my name .
Do n't argue with her . She 's crazy .
Go get me something I can use to break down the door .
experience of poor , healthy people -- or it gives you a feast with no appetite -- which is how the rich live , who have wealth and abundance but cannot enjoy it . I should be celebrating this good news , and yet my eyesight is failing , and my brain is delirious . Oh God ! Come to me , I 'm very sick .
Oh , my lord !
Only to be generous and give it to you once more . But I 'm wishing for something I already have . My generosity to you is as limitless as the sea , and my love is as deep . The more love I give you , the more I have . Both loves are infinite .
I 've got the whole barrel , man . I live in a cave by the seaside , where I keep the barrel hidden . --Hey , monster , how 's your fever ?
I have n't slept since Cassius first began to turn me against Caesar .
That 's all there is to it . As soon as the deed is done , you will be in my favor and I will promote you .
Halt , corpse bearers , and put down your load .
What 's this , a rat ? I 'll bet a buck he 's a dead rat now .
We 'll use benches for wood --
This Iago is extremely honest and good , and he knows a lot about human behavior . If it turns out that she really is running around on me , I 'll send her away , even though it 'll break my heart . Maybe because I 'm black , and I do n't have nice manners like courtiers do , or because I 'm getting old -- but that 's not much --She 's gone , and I 've been cheated on . I have no choice but to hate her . Oh what a curse marriage is ! We think our beautiful wives belong to us , but their desires are free ! I 'd rather be a toad in a moldy basement than to have only a part of someone I love , sharing the rest of her with others . This is the plague of important men -- our wives betray us more than those of poor men . It 's our destiny , like death . We are destined to be betrayed when we are born . Oh , here she comes .
You 'd be better off dead than facing the storm as naked as you are . Is this all a human being is ? Look at him . You are not indebted to animals for your clothes since do n't wear silk , leather , or wool -- not even perfume . Ha ! The three of us are sophisticated compared to you . You 're the real thing . The human being unburdened by the trappings of civilization is no more than a poor , naked , two-legged animal like you . Off with these clothes borrowed from animals ! Let me unbutton this .
What disease is he talking about ?
Well then , the beef without the mustard .
Oh , forgive all my sins !
Madam , I 'm here . What do you want ?
Good evening , good evening .
Sir , will you show me to Shylock 's house now ?
Everyone there got a little crazy and pulled some desperate stunts . Everyone except the sailors dove into the sea , leaving behind the ship that I had set on fire . The king 's son , Ferdinand , with his hair standing straight up -- it looked like reeds , not hair -- was the first person to jump , shouting , " Hell is empty , and all the devils are here ! "
It 's true , my lords , he did .
The count 's messenger , Cesario . We thought he was a coward , but he fights like a devil .
That 's not fair .
But my lord , I 'm sure that if she 's as depressed as people say , she 'll never let me in .
But how can you say that , when the king himself says you 're the heir to the Danish throne ?
be like the fountain that my children and all my descendants flow from , has rejected me ! Worse than that , she 's polluted herself , so that the fountain is a place where disgusting toads copulate and reproduce ! Even the goddess of patience could n't look at this and be patient -- it 's too horrifying !
It 's over , we 've won : here 's the King , dead .
Drunk ?
They did want me to tell her , but I persuaded them that , if they truly loved Benedick , they would try to get him to battle his emotions and keep Beatrice in the dark .
Let me come clean . I 'm not really Litio . I 'm not even a musician , really . In fact , I refuse to go on with this charade for a woman who would choose a lower-class guy like this over a gentleman of my stature . My name is Hortensio , sir .
And I would n't ask for any dowry except for her to play another trick like this one .
My body waits here , but the rest of me is gone . You do n't really love me . I beg you to let me go .
Of Pisa , sir , son of Vincentio .
I wish she were in love with me instead . I would have thrown away all other considerations and made her my wife . Please , tell Benedick about her feelings and see what he has to say .
I bet my life he 's gone to speak with Leonato about Beatrice !
You 've hit the target , sir .
And because I know how fond she is of music , playing her instruments , and poetry , I plan to hire live-in tutors for her . If either of you gentlemen knows anyone who would be suitable for the job , send him to me . I 'll pay well for good teachers . I do n't stint when it comes to educating my children . Goodbye , gentlemen . Katherina , you may stay . I have things to discuss with Bianca .
You wo n't see anything like that , sweetheart .
He fell down in the marketplace and foamed at the mouth and was speechless .
Oh , that 's likely ! Caesar , the great commander of troops , will surely risk all he has gained in order to fight this gladiator in the public square ! I see that men 's judgments are tied to their fortunes , and that external factors influence a man 's internal qualities , making everything suffer . How could Antony , knowing how luck stood on either side , still imagine that Caesar would respond to his nonsense ! Caesar , you 've conquered his judgment too .
His words are like poison to me .
The old priest at Saint Luke 's Church is at your command at all hours .
We have to strike while the iron 's hot .
I will my lord , as fast as I can .
That 's about as likely as an earthquake .
Black beetles , do n't come near . Worms and snails , do n't be bad .
Why , the one I just told you about .
I 'll be completely prepared . Mountains do n't tremble , however much the wind may blow !
All his fancy language has run out finally ; his pockets are empty .
Yes indeed .
My lord !
Go on , master , and I will follow you -- with truth and loyalty to my last breath . From the time I was seventeen , over sixty years ago , I have lived in this house , but now I will live here no more . Many men seek their fortune at seventeen ; at eighty , it 's a bit late . But fortune could not reward me better than to let me die well , without owing my master anything .
Master Fang , have you filed the lawsuit ?
We 've driven him all the way back to his camp . One of you run to the Queen with the news .
Before you go into battle , open this letter . If you win , then blow your trumpet as a signal for me . I may look wretched , but I 'll bravely stand up to defend my claims . If you die in battle , all your projects and this plan are off . Good luck to you .
Why not stay and hear me talk to him ?
He will die . See - -I 've sealed his fate with this mark next to his name . But , Lepidus , go to Caesar 's house . Bring his will here , and we 'll figure out a way to reduce his bequests to the people .
Oh , to hell with those people ! It 's the same kind of guy who got you upset and made you suspect I 'd cheated on you with the Moor .
Dear sister , it 's unfair to me -- and unfair to yourself -- to turn me into a slave . That I wo n't stand for . But if you want my things -- untie my hands and I 'll give them to you myself , everything , even down to my slip . Or anything else you order me to do . I know I should obey my elders .
People should be what they appear to be . If they 're not honest , they should n't look like they are !
Who 's dead ? Speak , man .
Do you want to know who they are , then ?
Good morning , sir .
Yes , he 's getting a bit confused .
Who 's there , aside from this foul weather ?
Excuse me , sir ?
That 'll happen soon enough . I remember the plan .
Now God help you --
I want to hear more about this .
I do n't until you practice them on me .
Sir Topas , Sir Topas !
Thanks to your majesty .
Here it is . Sit , kinsman Percy . Sit , good cousin Hotspur . For that is the name King Henry calls you , and whenever he says it , he grows pale , and with a sigh he wishes you were in heaven .
My noble brother !
Oh , knowledge put to such bad use is worse than a god cooped up in a hut .
King Richard could look at the pattern of what had gone before and predict perfectly that Northumberland 's betrayal -- then still a seed -- would someday grow larger , if it could find suitable soil to root in . And you 're the only soil it could have found .
Just his servant , sir -- pretty much got up like the horse , with a linen stocking on one leg and a big woolen booty on the other , a pair of red and blue garters , and an old hat with something no one 's ever seen before where the feather should be . He 's dressed like a freak , a total freak , and not at all like a proper footman or a gentleman 's valet .
Oh yeah , like what ?
I do n't have a lord . Do n't talk to me , Emilia . I ca n't even cry , though tears are the only answers I could give to all your questions . Tonight put my wedding sheets on my bed , and tell your husband to come to me now .
We had sailed a league away from Epidamnum before the sea , which always obeys the winds ' commands , gave any indication of danger . We did n't stay hopeful much longer : soon , the sky grew so dark that we were convinced we were going to die immediately . I could have accepted that , but I was forced by my wife 's incessant weeping - she wept in advance for the things that she saw ahead - and the piteous complaints of the sweet infants - who cried in imitation of the adults , without understanding why - to find a way to save us . Here 's the best I could do : the crew of our ship had fled for safety in the lifeboats and left us to sink with the ship . My wife , who was very concerned about the younger of our twins , tied him to a spare mast - the kind that sailors use for just such a purpose . She tied one of the other twins to him . I did the same with the remaining two boys . With the children taken care of , my wife and I tied ourselves to opposite ends of the mast and floated off , obedient to the current . It carried us toward Corinth - or so we thought . Eventually the sun , looking down upon the earth , burned off the threatening storm clouds . By the power of the sun 's wished-for light , the seas became calm . We saw two ships sailing toward us , one from Corinth , the other from Epidaurus . But before they reached us - let me say no more ! You 'll have to imagine what came next , based on what had already happened .
Please come closer . -- Make the music louder , please !
Here it is then , in as few words as possible . Your Highness recently sent word to France claiming certain dukedoms as your own , in the name of your great ancestor , King Edward the Third . By way of answer , the prince our master says that you 're acting like the immature youth that you are . He warns you to take note : there 's nothing in France that you can win by dancing . You ca n't party your way into dukedoms there . He therefore sends you this casket of treasure as a gift more suited to your character . And in return for this gift , he wishes you to drop your claim to the dukedoms . This is the Dauphin 's message .
Nobody 's ever gone to so much trouble just to make fun of someone .
Hal , are you in ?
Did n't I tell you he 'd figure it out ? This dog 's excellent at following false leads .
Mistress , I swear on my life that it 's true . It was just moments ago . He 's crying out for you and swears he 'll burn your face and disfigure you if he can get ahold of you .
Oh Lord , sir , who are you talking about ?
Truly , he 's a worthy man . He 's exceedingly well - read , and proficient in the occult ; he 's as brave as a lion , incredibly charming , and as generous as the jewel mines of India . And do you know what , cousin ? He holds you in great respect . He restrains his temper when you do something to put him in a bad mood . I promise you , there is n't a man alive who could have challenged him as you have , and gotten away without being hurt or punished . But do n't try it too often , I beg you .
I swear I wo n't , sir .
Now , noble lords , the reason we 're meeting is to determine the day the prince will be crowned . In God 's name , speak . When should the royal day be ?
No , I certainly wo n't stop . I 've heard that the pyramids build by the Ptolemies are splendid . Without doubt I 've heard that .
As for Antony , I 'm not interested in his requests . I 'll give the Queen a hearing and grant her requests if she either throws her dishonored friend out of Egypt or kills him . Then I 'll listen to her . Give my answer to them both .
I said , " When there are no written records , a person 's fame lasts for a long time . " Like Injustice , I get two meanings out of one word .
And I swear all up and down I spoke honestly when I said that this was a horrible idea .
Oh holy Mary , mother of God ! Are you this impatient ? Come on , you 're being ridiculous ! Is this the cure for my aching bones ? From now on , take care of your messages yourself .
That was one hit .
I 'll help you . But tell me honestly , are you sure you 're not insane ? Or are you just pretending ?
Like hell she is ! She 's made of the same flesh and blood as everyone else . If she were so moral , she would never have fallen in love with the Moor in the first place . Good lord ! Did you notice how she and Cassio were fondling each other 's hands ? Did you see that ?
Let the dying fire shine a glimmering light throughout the house . I want every elf and fairy to hop lightly , like a bird on a twig , and to sing and dance this song along with me .
That 's me , sir . Still your respectful servant .
Is this the same Moor whom the senate considers so capable ? Is this the guy who 's supposed to never get emotional , and who never gets rattled , no matter what disaster happens ?
Come on , kiss my feet .
Malvolio , your vanity is damaging your good taste . If you were generous , innocent , and good - natured , you would n't get so upset by what the fool says . You 'd think of his wisecracks as harmless little firecrackers , not hurtful bullets . A court jester is n't really criticizing people , even if he does nothing but make fun of them all day long . And a wise person does n't make fun of people , even if all he does is criticize them .
Well , sir , we meet again ? Take that .
Tell him that when our noble father , the duke of York , gave his three sons his blessing , he never imagined that our friendship would come to this . Remind Richard of this , and he will weep .
Will she go to bed now ?
My lord , you have to tell us where the body is , and then go with us to see the king .
Indeed , sir , it is .
A pickax and a shovel , a shovel , And a sheet for a funeral shroud , Oh , a pit of dirt is what we need For a guest like this one here .
Quickly , tell me how .
Very good .
Go to bed right this minute . I 'll be there shortly . Send your maid Emilia away . Make sure you do what I say .
And what if they wo n't go ?
What a man ! -- especially compared to my husband . Edmund , you deserve me to be your woman . There 's a fool sharing my bed now .
Good bye , uncle . Oh , I hope it wo n't be long until battlefields and collisions and groans are witnesses to our game of war !
I ca n't . I have no eyes . If you 're wretched and desperate , are n't you allowed to kill yourself ? It used to be the last ditch comfort of miserable people .
Sleep tight , and may nothing come between us .
The best news of all is that we 've located our king and our men . The next bit of good news is that our ship -- which we gave up for ruined only three hours ago -- is as well-outfitted and seaworthy as it was when we first set sail .
That , stirred up by Dorset , Buckingham , and Morton , he 's coming to England to claim the crown .
Despicable brute ! Never seen your master 's father , Vincentio ?
Will you have dinner with me tonight , Casca ?
But will it be soon ?
Sir , I passed him on my way here . He does n't know anything more than what I told him .
If we do n't , it 'll be the biggest disappointment of our lives .
I just did my duty , sir .
Lay her in the ground , and let violets bloom from her lovely and pure flesh ! I 'm telling you , you jerk priest , my sister will be an angel in heaven while you 're howling in hell .
My name 's Stephano , and I 've come to tell you my mistress will arrive here at Belmont before sunrise . She 's still at the monastery , kneeling and praying for a happy marriage .
Where 's Cesario going ?
There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisbe that will never work . First of all , Pyramus has to take out a sword to kill himself , which the ladies in the audience wo n't be able to stand . What should we do about that ?
Where should I go ? I have n't done anything wrong . But I have to remember that I 'm here on Earth , where doing evil is often praised , and doing good is sometimes a stupid and dangerous mistake . So then why should I offer this womanish defense that I 'm innocent ?
Your beauty caused what I did . It haunted me in my sleep . I would have killed the whole world just to be able spend one hour next to you .
It 's not for me to say . Things are what they are . Men may sleep , and when they do they may have their throats with them , and some people say knives have blades . What must be must be , and though my patience is worn out , it will last a little longer . There must be some resolution . Well , it 's not for me to say .
Be kind now and tell me some excellent fortune . Tell me that I 'll marry three kings before noon and be widowed by all of them . Tell me I 'll have a child when I 'm fifty who will be honored even by Herod of JudeaHerod was the Roman governor of Israel at the time of Christ 's birth . In an attempt to kill Jesus , prophesied to become king of the Jews , Herod ordered the slaughter of all the infants in Bethlehem.Herod of Judea . Let me marry Octavius Caesar and become my Queen 's equal .
Oh , gentlemen , look , look ! Dead Henry 's wounds have opened up and are bleeding again ! --Shame on you , you deformed lump . It 's your presence that draws out this blood from his empty veins . Your inhuman and unnatural actions have provoked this unnatural flood of blood . Oh God , who made this blood , revenge his death ! Oh earth , which soaks up this blood , revenge his death ! Either let heaven send lightning to strike the murderer dead or let the earth open wide and devour him , as it does this good king 's blood .
Not someone who does n't share that disposition , meaning Mark Antony . He 'll go back to his Egyptian dish . Then Octavia 's complaints will rouse Caesar , and as I said before , the thing that brought them together will part them . Antony will go where his passion is . He only married out of political necessity .
What , in my presence ? How dare you ! --Bianca , go inside .
My lady , will you have a dance with me ?
I know that . Thank you . You 're my husband 's friend and you 've known him a long time . I assure you the only reason he 's keeping away from you now is political .
Normally I would ask you what your name is first . But since you look so fine and noble , and since you 're so well mannered in your speech , I 'm prepared to overlook the rules of knighthood , which say I should refuse to fight a man I do n't know . I throw your accusations back in your face . Your lies can hardly hurt me , but I 'll
Hush , Grumio . It is my rival for Bianca . Petruchio , let 's stand over here awhile .
Then bring it here . Let me see it .
Why are you enraged ?
You lie . His father is already in Padua . In fact , he 's standing right here looking out the window .
Okay , I 'm ready . I hope luck will give me what my heart hopes for ! Gold , silver , and common lead . " He who chooses me must give and risk all he has . " You 'd have to be more attractive for me to give or risk anything for you . What does the golden box say ? Hmm , let me see :
What kind of crude jerk are you ?
May God send the Prince a better friend !
That would be making him eat twenty of his words . But are you taking advantage of me like he says , Ned ? Must I marry your sister ?
Laertes , you mean ?
I 'll go now to find out the date of the wedding .
No.
He is worth more mourning than that , and I will mourn for him .
Lord Warwick !
Three inches ? Really ? Your horn is a foot long , and I 'm at least that size . Now are you going to make a fire , or am I going to have to report you to our mistress , whose hand , now that she is herself at hand , you 'll be feeling soon . You 'll find it cold comfort , but that 's what you get for being slow with your warming duties .
And did you leave him like this ?
And how , out of your great heap of knowledge , will you manage to prove that ?
Who do you mean ?
Well , may peace be with you . Here comes my man , the man I 'm looking for .
I learned it in England , where they have a talent for drinking . The Danes , the Germans , and the Dutch -- come on , drink , drink ! -- are nothing compared to the English .
My lord and brother , God save you .
There are only friends here . Speak confidently .
You have a good heart , and believe me , I 'll tell her that . Lord , Lord , she 'll be a happy woman .
I call you coward ? I 'd sooner see you damned than call you a coward , but I tell you ; I 'd give a thousand pounds to be able to run as fast as you can . You 've got good - enough-; looking shoulders ; you do n't care who sees your back ! Is that what you call backing up your friends ? Damn anyone who backs up like that ! I 'd rather have a man who faces me . Give me some wine ! I 'll be damned if I 've had anything to drink today .
I have a wife I love . I wish she were in heaven so she could appeal to some power to make this dog Jew change his mind .
Wow ! This 'll be fun to watch ! This girl is either completely crazy or incredibly willful .
Are you laughing because you 've won ? Do you think you 've won ?
What have you done ? You 've made a mistake and put the love - juice on someone else , someone who was truly in love . Because of your mistake someone 's true love must have turned bad , instead of this man 's false love being turned into a true love .
The four suitors are looking for you so they can say goodbye , madam . And there 's a messenger representing a fifth one , the prince of Morocco , who says the prince will be here tonight .
Your body looks the same .
Did n't I tell you she was innocent ?
The water in here is nine feet deep ! Poor Tom !
Honest good boys , ah , put ' em away , put ' em away . As you know , this is a sad case .
You did ? Lord , Lord , how people love to lie ! I admit I had fallen and was out of breath , and so was he . But we both stood up at the same time and fought for a long hour . If I am to be believed , fine . If I 'm not believed , then the guilt will lie with the people who are supposed to reward bravery . I swear on my life , I gave him this gash in the leg . Damn , if he were alive and said I did n't , I 'd shove my sword down his throat .
No , there 's no love in him , unless you mean his love for strange costumes . He 's a Dutchman today , a Frenchman tomorrow , and sometimes wears the clothing of two countries at once : a German from the waist down , with his baggy pants , and a Spaniard from the hips up , with a cloak and no jacket . Unless you 're talking about his love for this kind of foolishness -- which , judging from his appearance , he has -- he is no fool for love , as you pretend .
This is the brave sergeant who fought to keep me from being captured . Hail , brave friend ! Tell the king what was happening in the battle when you left it .
Who 's that ?
Oh , I wish you had lied , even if it meant half my kingdom would be submerged and filled with snakes . Go , get out ! Even if you were as handsome as Narcissus , your face would be ugly to me . Is he really married ?
Tell every soldier to break off a branch and hold it in front of him . That way we can conceal how many of us there are , and Macbeth 's spies will give him inaccurate reports .
I 'm glad about that . More , please , more . I can suck sadness out of a song the way a weasel sucks eggs . More , please , more .
Oh , Douglas ! If you 'd fought like this at Holmedon , I would never have been able to beat you .
Are n't I right , Jephthah , old man ?
I do n't believe it .
At Pembroke , or at Harfordwest in Wales .
God help me ! If anything happens I 'm going to have to tell them exactly how unmanly I am .
I wish you would accept the King 's offer of kindness and love .
Because he 's not afraid of them .
Something 's wrong , the man sounds panicked .
Wait . A word or two before you go . I 've given the state of Venice a bit of help in the past , and they know it . But enough about that . When you record these sad events in your letters , please describe me exactly as I am . Do n't tone things down or exaggerate them out of hostility . If you 're being fair , you 'll have to describe me as someone who loved too much , but who was n't wise about it . I was not easily made jealous , but once I was tricked and manipulated , I worked myself into a frenzy . Describe me as a fool who threw away a precious pearl with his own hands , like a silly Indian who did n't know what it was worth . As someone who was not emotional , but who then cried a lot . Write all this
Oh God , do I have to remember that ? She would hang on to him , and the more she was with him the more she wanted to be with him ; she could n't get enough of him . Yet even so , within a month of my father 's death , even before she had broken in the shoes she wore to his funeral , crying like crazy -- even an animal would have mourned its mate longer than she did ! -- there she was marrying my uncle , my father 's brother , who 's about as much like my father as I 'm like Hercules . Less than a month after my father 's death , even before the tears on her cheeks had dried , she remarried . Oh , so quick to jump into a bed of incest ! That 's not good , and no good can come of it either . But my heart must break in silence , since I ca n't mention my feelings aloud .
Otherwise , it becomes a meaningless exercise : papers and numbers , and names of men rather than real , live men . That 's like drawing up plans for a house you ca n't possibly afford , building half of it , and then abandoning the partly - built structure to be ruined by the elements .
Yes , sir .
My husband will save me . He 's made me a Christian .
Where 's he eating tonight ? Is the old pig eating in the old sty ?
She sure did . The kitchen girl mocked you .
" That Sir Andrew -- "
Give me your arm . Get up . There you go . How do you feel ? Can you feel your legs ? You 're standing .
I 'd be as right for the job as you are , and I 'd do it more easily , since I 'd have good will on my side .
If you stick with me , when the time comes , there will be something in it for you .
I 've lost my name and title to a traitor . But I 'm as noble as my opponent .
Incredible . I do the wrong and am the first to start quarrels . What I did in secret I blame on others . I cry about Clarence , whom I had imprisoned , in front of these simple fools -- namely , Hastings , Derby and Buckingham -- and tell them that the queen and her allies roused the king against my brother Clarence . They believe me and urge me to take revenge on Rivers , Vaughan , and Grey . But then I sigh and quote a chunk of the Bible - -how God says do good in return for evil . Ha ! Dressing my out-and-out wickedness in scraps of Scripture , I look like a saint exactly when I 'm most like the devil .
Three times . And the hedgehog has whined once .
And like I am for Rosalind .
Give me the letter . I 'll look at it . Where is the count 's page , the one who called the watch ? Boy , what was your master doing here ?
Go to him , Sir Topas .
Should I tell him to go , and be harsh with him ?
which any peace - lover can do . His military understanding is all theory , no practice . But Cassio 's been chosen over me . My career is cut short by some bookkeeper , even though the general saw my fighting skills first-hand in Rhodes and Cyprus . This accountant is now lieutenant , while I end up as the Moor 's flag - bearer .
Oh , he 's crazy , Laertes !
Calling my servants together , wearing an embroidered robe , having just come from a couch where I 've left Olivia sleeping --
I do too , my lord . They 're entirely welcome .
Say , is n't this the Latin master Cambio ?
With no more ceremony than that ? See , ladies , how they scorn me now . They pinch their noses to avoid smelling the dying rose whose scent , as a bud , they happily inhaled . Show him in , sir .
I do n't know what to believe , father .
What do you mean by that ?
She mocks me with her silence , and I 'll get my revenge on her .
Just a second , sir .
Goodbye . My tears show you my feelings , my beautiful pagan , my sweet Jew ! I 'm sure some Christian will resort to trickery to get you . But goodbye . It 's not manly to cry . Goodbye .
Let them go . I 'll head to Gloucestershire . I 'll visit Master Robert Shallow , Esquire . I 've already got him under my thumb , as soft as wax . Soon I 'll seal the deal . Let 's go .
A thing of no importance . Take me to him . Ready or not , here I come !
No , it 's dreadfully steep . Listen . Do you hear the sea ?
But the King has more men then we do . For God 's sake , nephew , wait until everyone arrives .
What , Gertrude ? How is Hamlet ?
No.
I 'll do the best I can , my lord .
Quiet ! Here comes Antony .
I 'd like to think all men have some hope .
A hangman 's noose will help him ! Let hell chew him up ! Why should he call her a whore ? Who 's been with her ? When has she had the time , the place , or the means to sleep with anyone ? How is this at all likely ? The Moor is being tricked by some crook , some terrible villain , some rotten bastard . Oh , I wish we could unmask scoundrels like that , and give a whip to every good man to beat them senseless with !
His paralysis is , as I understand it , a kind of lethargy , if it please you . It 's a sleepiness in the blood , a nasty tingling .
You 're wrong to kill me for loving you . Why are you chewing on your lower lip like that ? You 're shaking with emotion . These are bad omens , but I hope , I hope , they do n't predict my future .
You 're right . And that necklace around his neck is the very one he swore he did n't have ! Good sir , stay close to me . I 'll speak to him . Signior Antipholus , I ca n't believe you 'd put me to this kind of shame and trouble -- not to mention the scandal you 've brought on yourself . You swore I never gave you the necklace , but now you 're wearing it openly . Not only has your lie cost you money , shame , and imprisonment , but you 've also mistreated this honest friend of mine . If it had n't been for this dispute , he would have already hoisted sail and left for sea . You got that necklace from me : can you deny that ?
I wo n't .
To which we all appeal .
I 've heard better news .
Or else their guardians and advisors said no --
Oh , no , that was my lady 's voice .
Do n't believe it .
Our knocking woke him up . Here he comes .
" You must have figured out who I am . If you love me , let me know by smiling at me . You 're so attractive when you smile . Please smile whenever you 're near me , my dearest darling . "
The man 's going crazy . Take him away . Come on , sir . Come on .
I wish I could give you the little strength that I have .
Oh , you prophesied that the time would come when I would want your help in cursing that humpbacked spider , that hideous toad !
Oh , brave spirit !
We already knew that . Our forces are ready for them . Oh , father , I 'm taking care of your business . That 's why the King of France listened to my pleas and tears . We 're not invading England out of ambition or greed , but out of love --dear love ! -- and my father 's right to his kingdom . I hope I see him and hear him again soon .
I only worship what 's natural , not what 's manmade . Why should I let myself be tortured by manmade social customs that deprive me of my rights simply because I was born twelve or fourteen months later than my older brother ? Why do they call me " bastard " and " lowlife " when I 'm just as gifted in mind and body as legitimate children ? Why do they call us bastards " lowlifes " ? Always " lowlife , " " bastard , " " lowlife , " " lowlife . " At least we bastards were conceived in a moment of passionate lust rather than in a dull , tired marriage bed , where half - sleeping parents monotonously churn out a bunch of sissy kids . All right then , legitimate brother Edgar , I have to have your lands . Our father loves me just as much as the legitimate Edgar . What a nice word that is , " legitimate " ! Well , my legitimate Edgar , if this letter works and my plan succeeds , Edmund the lowlife will beat the legitimate . Look out , I 'm on my way up . Three cheers for bastards !
Is there more news ?
What can you do ? That 's what happens with talking walls .
What are you saying ?
Now you 're talking . I 'd like to sit under him . He 'll be a cool soldier .
But quiet . Here come the murderers I 've hired . How 's it going , hardy , reliable friends ! Are you going to take care of this thing now ?
Oh , oh , oh ! One of the stolen diamonds cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfurt ! I never felt the curse of the Jews until now . I never felt it until now -- two thousand ducats in that diamond , and other precious , precious jewels ! I wish my daughter were dead at my feet wearing those jewels ! I wish she were in her coffin here , with the ducats in her coffin ! You could n't find out anything about them ? Why ? I do n't even know how much I 'm spending to find them . Loss upon loss ! The thief left with so much , and I 'm spending so much to hunt down the thief -- and still I 'm not satisfied ! I have n't gotten my revenge . The only luck I have is bad luck . Nobody suffers but me . Nobody 's crying except me .
When we 're born , we cry because we 've arrived on the stage of life , like all the other fools . That 's a nice hat you 've got there . How ingenious to make horseshoes out of felt . I 'll test it out . And when I 've sneaked up on my sons - in - law , then I 'll kill , kill , kill , kill , kill , kill !
What 's the matter ?
Has he said anything ?
Why , dear me , Kate ! I hope you have n't lost your mind . This is not a maiden , as you say , but an old man -- wrinkled , faded , and withered .
If you love my brother , do n't hate me . I am his brother , and I love him very much . If you 're doing this for pay , go to my brother Richard . He will pay you more for saving my life than Edward will for killing me .
Yes , sir . I think it 's two o'clock .
I do n't think any woman like that exists .
It 's a Greek invocation , calling fools into a circle . I 'm going to take a nap , if I can -- if I ca n't , I 'll curse all the first-born children of Egypt .
But you are lying in it , being in it and saying it 's yours . It 's for the dead , not the living . So you 're lying .
What 's that ?
You threw it at her rudely , and she wants you to take it back . If it 's worth bending over to pick up , there it is on the ground , where you can see it . If not , whoever finds it can have it .
A person can only pay with their life once , and she has paid in full . What you wanted is yours . Her last words were " Antony ! Most noble Antony ! " Then , as she was speaking your name , a strangled groan split her words . " Antony " was divided between her heart and lips . She gave up her life with your name still within her .
Stop right now or I 'll throw your dagger over the roof .
Madam , with all my heart . I 'll do anything you ask .
it pleases you , I 'll meet you in the marketplace at five and will keep you company until bedtime . Right now , my pressing business calls me away .
The Prince and Claudio are hurrying this way .
Now , you lie there on the path . Here comes the fish that 's going to gobble up our bait .
I do n't think a ridiculous Pyramus like that one deserves much moaning . I hope she keeps it short .
Richard is looking cheerful today . You always know he 's got some plan that pleases him when he says good morning with such gusto . I do n't think there 's a man under the sun who 's worse at hiding his love or hate than Richard . You know his feelings immediately just by looking at his face .
A man , sir .
I can summon spirits from the deep ocean .
Are you really going to pretend you do n't know me now ? After everything I 've done for you , you 're refusing to help me ? Do n't make me more miserable than I am . I might do something really weak and unmanly , like listing the kind things I 've done for you .
Well , then , that 's how it is .
Thank you . The only tongues that should be silent are ox - tongues on a dinner plate and those that belong to old maids .
What , a hundred , man ?
In a way I 'm glad to hear that Cornwall is dead . But on the other hand , Edmund is traveling with Regan , who is now a widow . If something happens between them on the road , it would shatter my hopes of having Edmund for myself and escaping this hateful life . Still , there are benefits to having Cornwall out of the way . --I 'll read this letter and answer it .
Let 's go . Come with me . Our imminent separation so occupies our thoughts that even though you stay here , you come with me , and even though I leave here , I stay with you .
King , just give me the dowry you promised me , and I 'll make Cordelia the Duchess of Burgundy right away .
And I wish you were a man 's tailor . You could have mended his clothes and made him fit to go . I ca n't make him a private soldier when he 's already the leader of thousands -- of lice , that is . But never mind , oh forcible Feeble .
I 'll trust my determination and my hands , but none of Caesar 's men .
If you meet a thief , you can expect him to be dishonest . The less you have to do with that kind of man , the more honest you will be .
Here comes my master , your brother .
How can you be out of breath when you have enough breath to tell me that you 're out of breath ? The excuse you make to delay the news is longer than the news itself . Is the news good or bad ? Answer that question . Tell me if it 's good or bad , and I 'll wait for the details . Tell me so I can be satisfied . Is it good or bad ?
Is the king leaving here today ?
What is this , Sir John ? Damn ! How could any decent man put up with this storm of screaming and cursing ? Are n't you ashamed to force a poor widow to take these extreme measures simply to get what 's hers ?
You may be exaggerating the risks .
What do you have to say for yourself , Hermia ? Think carefully , pretty girl . You should think of your father as a god , since he 's the one who gave you your beauty . To him , you 're like a figure that he 's sculpted out of wax , and he has the power to keep that figure intact or to disfigure it . Demetrius is an admirable man .
What country are you from , if I may ask ?
You should focus instead on pleasing your husband , who 's taken you in as an act of charity . You 've failed to obey your father and you deserve to be deprived of everything that 's been taken away from you .
I 'll back you up .
Did n't I ? Back in the old days I would 've made him dance with my sword . But I 'm old now , and suffering has weakened me . Who are you ? My eyesight 's not the best , I 'll tell you straight .
I 've always had great respect for your destiny .
What kind of fighting cock is this ?
You had a Clarence , too , and Richard killed him . Your womb let loose a hellhound that hunts us all to death . That dog , who was born with sharp teeth for lapping up the blood of lambs , who had teeth before he even had eyes , is the world 's worst tyrant , making the eyes of a whole kingdom red with weeping . He destroys God 's handiwork and will send us to our graves . Oh righteous God , how can I thank you enough that this meat-eating mutt preys on his mother 's children and forces her to join others in their grief !
Thank you . I know he holds me dear , but I have n't asked him about the coronation , and he has n't told me . But you , my noble lords , may name a time , and I 'll second it on the duke 's behalf , which I do n't think he 'll mind .
I 'll give light to men , but I 'll never be light or unchaste . An unfaithful wife makes a husband worry , and I 'll never let Bassanio worry if I can help it . I hope God figures it all out ! Welcome home , my husband .
Here ! Go ! The desk ! Money ! Come on , now ! Hurry !
So how did it go , sir ?
As long as you move gracefully , look handsome , and say nothing , I 'm yours for the dance . And I 'll even linger after I 've gone .
They ca n't have changed ; there 's no way this could be true . It 's a trick to confuse us . Think about how important Cyprus is to the Turks , and remember that they could capture Cyprus more easily , since it is n't as well protected as Rhodes is . If we keep these things in mind , we ca n't possibly imagine that the Turks would be so incompetent as to put off for last what they want to achieve first , setting aside something easy and profitable to do something dangerous and pointless .
I look forward to that present .
Let 's go to him .
Shall we go send them food and fresh clothing and feed their starving horses before we fight them ?
How right he is ! His words whip up my guilty feelings . The whore 's pockmarked cheek made pretty with make-up is just like the ugly actions I 'm disguising with fine words . What a terrible guilt I feel !
It 's a reason for suspicion , even though it 's just a dream . And it might back up other evidence that may seem too flimsy .
Only a mule would agree to that .
Good . Go to the gate . Somebody 's knocking .
Thank you . I 'm not a man who talks a lot , but I thank you .
Do n't cry , do n't cry . What a day this is !
It is . I wonder what it means .
Yes , unfortunately . I 'd do anything to bring them back together , since I really care for Cassio .
My lord , I promise we will play our parts so skillfully that he will believe everything we tell him .
I 'm not feeling well -- that 's all .
A grave ? Oh no ! This is a lantern , dead Paris . Juliet lies here , and her beauty fills this tomb with light . Dead men , lie there . You are being buried by another dead man .
You 're talking about Caesar , right , Cassius ?
Now what do you think ? Your husband 's mad , is n't he ?
Yes , but the mustard is probably too hot .
Come on , get to the point .
The king made peace among all of us . I , at least , intend to stick to our agreement to get along .
What do you mean , do I think so ?
I 'm here with a generous offer from the King , if you 'll listen to me and treat me with respect .
I 'm indebted to you forever .
No , I 'll recite it for you right now : " de hand , de fangres , de nails -- "
Yes , let 's go to sleep . My strange self-delusions just come from inexperience . We 're still just beginners when it comes to crime .
Good night , honest Iago .
Yes , you 're speaking very well .
Noble Buckingham , your promise is like medicine to my ailing heart . All we need to put the final touches on this future peace is for Richard to appear .
I know what I 'm talking about . You 're close to her , I know it . So I recommend you take note of what I 'm about to say . My husband is dead . Edmund and I have talked , and it makes more sense for him to marry me than Goneril . You can figure out the rest . If you find him , please give him this . And when your mistress hears about all this , please tell her to use her head next time . So goodbye . If you happen to hear anything about that blind traitor Gloucester , I 'll reward anyone who snuffs him out .
Actually , once or twice she sighed and said , " father , " as if the word were pressing on her chest . Once she exclaimed , " Sisters , sisters , shame on you ! Kent , father , sisters ! What , out in a storm in the middle of the night ? I ca n't believe it . " The tears fell from her eyes like holy water . Then she ran away to grieve alone .
I promised him that we would all chip in and take care of the wooing expenses , whatever they come to .
Of course , sir . Not a word .
Nicely put . --Go with your son , old man . --Say goodbye to your old master and find your way to my house . Give him a uniform that 's a little nicer than the others . Make sure it gets done .
Yes , go quickly and give her this jewel . Tell her my love wo n't go away and wo n't be denied .
That same night , I saw Cupid flying from the moon to the earth , with all of his arrows ready . He took aim at a beautiful young virgin who was sitting on a throne in the western part of the world , and he shot his arrow of love well enough to have pierced a hundred thousand hearts . But I could see that Cupid 's fiery arrow was put out by watery , virginal moonbeams , so the royal virgin continued her virginal thoughts without being interrupted by thoughts of love . But I paid attention to where Cupid 's arrow fell . It fell on a little western flower , which used to be white as milk but now has turned purple from being wounded by the arrow of love . Young girls call it " love - in - idleness . " Bring me that flower . I showed it to you once . If its juice is put on someone 's eyelids while they 're asleep , that person will fall in love with the next living creature he or she sees . Bring me this plant , and get back here before the sea monster has time to swim three miles .
I swear , dear sister , I have not yet encountered that special face I might prefer to any other .
I felt like skipping school , sir .
Well , I cannot tell how my difficult life has weathered my face , but I will never let those difficulties subdue my courage .
No , my dearest love , I would n't cheat you for the whole world .
Here 's the challenge , read it . It 's bursting with fighting words .
I know how they think , and I understand why they 're doing this . They really wish they were somewhere else , but they want to descend on us , looking fierce so we 'll think they 're brave . But they are n't .
To murder me ?

About the table , sir , dinner will be served on it . As for the food , it will be served in covered dishes . As for your coming in to dinner , just do what you feel is right .
Yes , yes , and let 's sing in unison , like two gypsies riding on a single horse .
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks .
Now talk to him in your own voice , and tell me how he is . I wish this trick would be over . If we can find a convenient way to let him go , I want to do it . I 'm in so much trouble with my niece that it would n't be safe to let this prank go to its conclusion . Come to my room later on .
That last toast Pompey gave him will take care of him , unless he 's a raging glutton .
Musicians , start playing here . I 'll pay you for your trouble . Play something short that will put the general in a good mood .
Bardolph , have n't I shrivelled since our last robbery ? Have n't I gotten thin ? Are n't I shrinking ? My skin is hanging off me like a loose gown on an old lady ; I 'm puckered like a rotten apple . I 'd better repent my sins , and fast , while there 's still something left of me . I 'll be in bad shape soon , and then I wo n't have the strength to repent . If I have n't forgotten what the inside of a church looks like , I 'm a withered berry , a lame old nag . The inside of a church ! The wrong crowd , the wrong crowd has ruined me .
Wait ! Who do we have here ? Did n't you say this fat man was dead ?
Yes , but how he adores Mark Antony !
What does that mean , sir ?
Oh , I think they are -- when he 's in love . But he 's not in love .
Oh , Bottom , you 've changed ! What have you got on your head ?
Who put my messenger in the stocks ?
Show him and make him grieve . Come like shadows and depart in the same way !
Exactly right . One Hero died when she was slandered , but I am alive . And as surely as I am alive , I am a virgin .
Since Macbeth went to war , I have seen her rise from her bed , put on her nightgown , unlock her closet , take out some paper , fold it , write on it , read it , seal it up , and then return to bed , remaining asleep the entire time .
Ugly devil , for God 's sake , get out of here and leave us alone . You have made the happy world into your hell , filling it with cursing cries and lamentations . If you enjoy looking at your awful deeds , take a look at this noteworthy example of your butcheries .
No women sir . Just old Mistress Quickly and Mistress Doll Tearsheet .
No , no more than is reasonable .
Then where would you have me go , Adam ?
The king is insane . I hate the fact that I 'm sane enough to be aware of my own great suffering . It 'd be better to be delirious and unaware of anything . Then my mind would be free of sorrow , and sadness would be forgotten in my hallucinations .
Signior Leonato , listen to the friar 's plan . And even though you know I 'm very close to the Prince and Claudio , I swear I 'll keep your counsel and deal with this secretly and justly .
Who are you ? What 's your name and rank , and why are you stepping forward ?
If not an end to your suffering , then at least you 'll have the means to endure it patiently .
These letters come from your father .
Yes , and paid me well for doing it .
And let me kill Cassio . You 'll hear more from me by midnight .
And what are you going to do with it ? Why did you want it so much that you begged me to steal it ?
Do n't speak of this again .
Oh-ho , Petruchio ! Tranio got you that time .
We lost this time , but let 's try again . Come , we 'll all go for it , body and soul .
Brutus , I 've been watching you lately . You seem less good-natured and affectionate toward me than usual . You 've been stubborn and unfamiliar with me , your friend who loves you .
Give it to me . " Young man , whatever you are , you 're a real scum bucket . "
No , I swear , that 's not true !
If he 's an easy mark and buys my story , I think I can get him to pose as Vincentio -- and be as ready to vouch for you with Baptista Minola as the real Vincentio would . Go , take your sweetheart and leave him to me .
Well , maybe I 'll see you there . I 'd really like to speak with you .
What 's the matter , you sack of wool ? What are you muttering about ?
Let 's follow him , Gertrude . I worked so hard to calm him down , and now I 'm worried he 's getting all excited again . Let 's follow him .
I wo n't consider it .
Has your heart cooled toward me ?
No , absolutely not . But please tell me , who 's his best friend ? Is n't there some new swaggering young ruffian who will happily go to hell with Benedick ?
I 'm no whore . I 'm as moral as you are .
Oh , he has n't ? Well , then , you do n't have the affection that would teach you that you and I are one . Will we be separated ? Should we part , sweet girl ? No. Let my father find another heir . So , help me plan how we 'll escape , where we 'll go , and what we 'll take with us . Do n't even try to take this all upon yourself , bearing your grief alone and leaving me out . I swear by the heavens , which have grown pale in sympathy with us , I 'm going with you , whatever you say .
I swear , I think he is -- except for the good fellow Puff , from Barson .
Farewell , everyone .
Yes , we should get his support , for his mature presence will make others think well of us and speak out in support of our actions . They 'll assume that Cicero , with his sound judgment , ordered the actions . His dignified maturity will distract attention from our youth and wildness .
Then she is well , and nothing is wrong . Her body sleeps in the Capulet tomb , and her immortal soul lives with the angels in heaven . I saw her buried in her family 's tomb , and then I came here to tell you the news . Oh , pardon me for bringing this bad news , but you told me it was my job , sir .
But what danger we 'll put ourselves in , two young , innocent women traveling so far ! Fresh beauty attracts thugs and thieves even more than money .
Damn it all !
No doubt , for you wear too many in the first place , and it might be more seemly to make do with fewer .
I hope Antonio repays his loan on time , or he 'll suffer for this .
Who does time amble for ?
Yes , and he 's been carried off the field . Your grief should not be equal to his worth , because then your sorrow would never end .
How distasteful ! That a man of your stature would scheme with his servant to upset me like this . It may be my fault that you 've been avoiding me , but do n't make things worse by treating me with contempt as well . I 'll hang on your sleeve : you 're an elm tree , my husband , and I 'm a vine . My weakness is enhanced by your strength , which gives me the strength to say this : the things that take you away from me are worthless -- just overgrown weeds in need of a trimming . They get into your system and infect you , feeding off your confusion .
Now , most noble Brutus , the gods are friendly with us today so that we , who want peace , can live on to old age ! But since the affairs of men are always uncertain , let 's think about the worst that may happen . If we lose this battle , this is the last time we 'll speak to each other . If we lose , what do you plan to do ?
A very candid reply .
Come here , ma'am . Is your name Goneril ?
Oh , shut the door , and after you shut it , come over here and weep with me . This mess is beyond hope , beyond cure , beyond help !
I could go around the world in forty minutes .
Lord Mayor , the reason we have sent --
You 're not supposed to get old until you 're wise .
No , I have n't had lunch . Everything you told me I already knew . What does he say about our marriage ? What about that ?
Are your doors locked ?
That crazy bird 's only half - hatched .
I will , my lord .
Mine too , to join hers .
When Caesar was alive , even he would n't dare anger me like this .
Listen to you , instructing me like a parrot would .
I can see the determination in your eyes . Within the next hour I 'll tell you where to go and exactly when to strike . It must be done tonight , away from the palace . Always remember that I must be free from suspicion . For the plan to work perfectly , you must kill both Banquo and his son , Fleance , who keeps him company . Getting rid of Fleance is as important to me as knocking off Banquo . Each of you should make up your own mind about whether you 're going to do this . I 'll come to you soon .
I 'd be very grateful to you if you did . I 'm much more of a religious type than a fighter , and I do n't care who knows it .
Boy , I beg you to run to the senate house . Do n't stay to answer me -- get going . Why are you still standing there ?
He leaves me to my own contentment , but that 's the one thing I cannot find . Out in the world , I 'm like a drop of water , trying to find a drop that matches in the whole wide ocean . When that drop fails its task - unnoticed , inquisitive - it dissipates into the ocean and destroys itself . In order to find a mother and a brother , I too have lost myself , unhappily .
Well then , leave them alone until they 're sober . If even then they do n't answer to your satisfaction , you can say that they 're not the men you thought they were .
Who are the people who want to speak with me ?
Well , I hope so . I 'm not such an idiot that I ca n't keep my hands dry . But I do n't get it -- what 's the joke ?
If you had foul words in your mouth , then your breath must be foul , and foul breath is nauseating . Thus , I 'll leave without being kissed .
She was lying even as she was going down to hell . I did kill her .
Where ? To supper ?
Shame on you , brother - in - law ! You 've changed so much ! Why are you treating my sister like this ? She sent Dromio to bring you home for lunch .
This sword 's too heavy . Show me another one .
An otter , Sir John ? Why an otter ?
Cleopatra --
That 's him , that villain Romeo .
Go back with her ? Send away fifty of my knights ? No. I 'd rather renounce living in a house , and wander in the open air in the hardships of poverty , as a friend of the wolf and the owl . Go back with her ? I might as well go before the King of France , who took my youngest daughter without a dowry , kneel before his throne , and beg him to give me a tiny pension to stay alive . Go back with her ? I 'd rather be a slave or a packhorse for this hateful stablehand here .
Your wife , sir . My mistress . At the Phoenix . The one who 's waiting for you to come home for lunch and praying that you 'll get home quickly .
Yes . Good luck , fair gentleman .
Yes , we talked for a couple of hours .
I do n't like sports . I 'm not competitive like Antony . But do n't let me keep you from going , Cassius . I 'll go my own way .
My lord , good morning . Good morning , Catesby . Go ahead and laugh at me , but by Jesus , I do n't like these separate meetings --I really do n't .
Dear lady , welcome home .
Oh , what a villain ! That 's just what he said in the letter . Evil villain ! Monstrous , hateful , bestial villain ! Worse
Believe me , I 'm not . I 'm telling the truth .
Boy ! Lucius ! Fast asleep ? Well , enjoy the sweetness of deep sleep . Your brain is n't stuffed with the strange shapes and fantasies that come to men who are overwhelmed by worries . That 's why you sleep so soundly .
It 's your music , madam , from your house .
Where the bee drinks , I drink dew . I lie in the cup of a cowslip flower . I sleep there when the owls hoot . I fly on a bat 's back , following the summer around the globe . Happily , happily I will live now Under the blossom that hangs on the bough .
What 's the matter ?
And what 's your connection with the traitors who landed in our kingdom recently ?
Buck up , man ! Care may have killed the cat , but you are strong enough to kill care . Lighten up .
What would you do about it ?
Yes , a dozen of them -- as many as there are women in the world , in fact . But I do think it 's the husband 's fault if we wives cheat on them . For instance , our husbands
He 's not a troublemaker , hostess . He 's a harmless cheater ; you can pet him like a little puppy . He would n't even start a fight with a guinea - hen , if her feathers stood up in annoyance . Get him up here , drawer .
We 'll have the barber trim it later , along with your beard . Please , continue , players . This old man only likes the dancing or the sex scenes ; he sleeps through all the rest . Go on , come to the part about Hecuba .
Come on , let me die now And put my body in a dark coffin . I feel my breath leaving me . I 've been killed by a beautiful girl . Prepare my shroud of white , Adorned with sprigs of yew - tree . I 'm the most faithful person Who ever lived or died . Do n't scatter sweet flowers On my black coffin . Do n't let my friends See my poor corpse . I do n't want to hear sad sighs , So bury me where no sad lovers can find my grave to weep over it !
Does Leonato have a son , my lord ?
Oh , no question -- it wo n't style itself .
The air is biting cold .
Soldiers , watch carefully .
Oh , most bloody sight !
You can forget about your charm . The evil spirit you serve can tell you that I was not born . They cut me out of my mother 's womb before she could bear me naturally .
And I 'll go to bed at noon .
She is dead .
Was Queen Cordelia aggrieved by the letters you delivered ?
Well , okay . --I swear to God , both their stories match . Have you written that down , that they are n't criminals ?
I know this quality in you , Brutus -- it 's as familiar to me as your face . Indeed , honor is what I want to talk to you about . I do n't know what you and other men think of this life , but as for me , I 'd rather not live at all than live to worship a man as ordinary as myself . I was born as free as Caesar . So were you . We both have eaten as well , and we can both endure the cold winter as well as he . Once , on a cold and windy day , when the river Tiber was crashing against its banks , Caesar said to me , " Cassius , I dare you to jump into this rough water with me and swim to that point there . " As soon as he spoke , though I was fully dressed , I plunged in and called for him to follow . And he did . The water roared , and we fought against it with vigorous arms . And , thanks to our fierce competitiveness , we made progress . But before we reached the end point , Caesar cried , " Help me , Cassius , or I will sink ! " And just as Aeneas , the hero who founded Rome , emerged from the fires of Troy with his elderly father Anchises on his shoulder , so I emerged from the Tiber carrying the tired Caesar .
Hunting what , Curio ?
I 'll keep them all . By God , the King wo n't get a single Scot , even if having a Scot would save his soul ! I 'll keep them , I swear .
I think so too .
Some should go to the public platforms and cry out , " Liberty , freedom , and democracy ! "
I stretch my joke for that word " fat . " If you add that word to the word " goose , " it shows that you are a fat goose .
No , no , he ca n't survive these attacks much longer . His mind 's endless worry and concern have so shaken his body that it can barely hold together .
I have a message to deliver .
Ah , here comes my messenger . --What 's going on , you crazy spirit ? What havoc have you wreaked in this part of the forest ?
It may be , it certainly may be .
No , it would be better to speak first and kiss only after you 've run out of things to say . When good orators finish talking , they spit ; when lovers do , they kiss .
Brutus , do not provoke me . I will not take it . You 're forgetting yourself when you back me into a corner . I 'm a soldier , more experienced than you , and better able to give orders .
The world 's a liar . Kate is as straight and slender as a hazel-twig , her hair as brown as hazelnut shells , and she herself sweeter than the kernels . Take a few steps --I want to see you walk . You do n't limp at all !
They might even give you half a share of the company .
Oh come on , I know all about you .
When it gets too heavy , rest , and I 'll lament over King Henry 's corpse some more .
Should I go convince my daughter to marry you ?
Yes , and he told me some things that were even more amazing .
Oh , Caesar , read mine first , for my petition affects you more directly . Read it , great Caesar .
There 's no other way . She 's the one who 's got to do it . And what luck , she 's here ! Go ahead and ask her .
And then does n't Toby punch you in the mouth ?
How are you doing , Charles ?
Not tonight -- today . If you knew the reason , you 'd understand and would urge me to go rather than stay . Good friends , I thank you all for coming to see me wed this patient , sweet , virtuous wife . Dine with my father and drink a health to me . I have to leave . Goodbye to you all .
Now tell me how long you intend to keep her .
I 've sworn to God that I 'll live a life of prayer and contemplation until my husband returns . Only Nerissa will keep me company . There 's a monastery two miles away where we can stay . Please say you 'll agree , because I really need you to do this .
Yes , I truly think He did great good .
I 've been through the entire forest , but I have n't found any Athenian man to use the flower on . Wait a second , who 's this ? He 's wearing Athenian clothes . This must be the guy who rejected the Athenian girl . And here 's the girl , sleeping soundly on the damp and dirty ground . Pretty girl ! She should n't lie near this rude and heartless man . Jerk , I throw all the power of this magic charm on your eyes . When you wake up , let love keep you from going back to sleep . Wake up when I 'm gone , because now I have to go to Oberon .
What 's this ? A drunkard or a corpse ? Check and see if he 's breathing .
Did you give everything to your two daughters and end up like this ?
He 's a traitor .
Let 's say goodbye to him .
Nurse , where 's my daughter ? Tell her to come to me .
Hello ! What 's the news ?
It 's difficult to have such immaturity so close to my heart , but bear with me . Even the traits that become me most kill me when you do n't approve of them . Your honor is the reason you are leaving . So I beg you not to listen to my foolishness . May the gods be with you . May your sword be victorious and everything you do succeed .
Sir Toby Belch ! How are you , Sir Toby Belch ?
Cassio brings good news about the Turkish defeat , but he 's worried about the Othello 's safety . The two of them were separated during the storm .
Well said , Master Silence .
His majesty is so concerned about my personal safety that he has ordered them to conduct me to the Tower .
Fight , peasant . Do n't run away , scoundrel . Stand and fight , you overdressed servant , fight !
How can you talk about the quality of the poem or the value of the ring ? You swore to me when I gave it to you that you would wear it till you died , and that it would be buried with you . If you did n't want to take care of it for my sake , you should have just because you made so many vows that you 'd take care of it . And now you claim you gave it to a judge 's clerk ! No , I swear to God that clerk will never grow a beard on his face .
I will , my lord .
Did the brothers-in-law leave ?
Uncle , uncle , how are you already so brain-dead so early in the day ?
Do n't worry about it , man , I wo n't have to pay any penalty . In two months -- a month before this loan is due --I expect to earn more than three times that much from my investments .
Tell me , good grandmother , is our father dead ?
" Fine ! " he says . " All right ! " It 's not fine , and I 'm not all right ! It 's wrong , and I 'm starting to realize I 'm being cheated !
Stay out here ? I do n't think so ! Am I to be dictated to , like a child ? Told when to come and where to go ? No.
God have mercy on us ! They broke loose !
Oh , no , he 's surely not in hell . He 's in Arthur 's bosom , if any man ever went to Arthur 's bosom . He died as peacefully as a baby . He departed right between twelve and one , just as the tide was turning . For after I saw him fumbling with the sheets and playing with imaginary flowers and smiling at the ends of his fingers , I knew it was the end . His face was gaunt and he was babbling about green fields . " Now , now , Sir John ! " I said . " What 's all this ? Cheer up ! " And he called out " God , God , God ! " three or four times . To soothe him , I told him not to think of God , that I hoped it was n't yet time to bother with such thoughts . So he asked me to put more blankets on his feet . I put my hand into the bed and felt his feet , and they were stone - cold . Then I felt his legs , and they were stone - cold , and so I moved upward and upward , and his whole body was stone - cold .
May God thank you for it . But please , father -- the question is still nagging at me -- why did you conjure up this storm ?
We must do this wisely .
I 'm telling you , it was Carthage .
Good riddance ! --Close the curtains and leave . --I hope everyone who looks like him will make the same choice .
Well , I 'll put it on and disguise myself . I wish I were the first person who ever told lies in a priest 's robe .
You must be ready for revenge , too , when you hear me out .
Unless he is moved and inspired by Cleopatra . Now , since we love the feeling of being in love , let 's not spoil the mood with serious discussion . We should n't spend a minute without some kind of amusement . What shall we do tonight ?
Your Honor 's actors , hearing of your recovery , have come to perform a pleasing comedy for you -- and your doctors approve wholeheartedly . They say that too much suffering has made your blood coagulate , and that sadness leads to madness . So they think it 's a good idea for you to watch a play and direct your thoughts toward laughter and merriment -- two strong preventive medicines that foster long life .
Quiet , little ale pot . Quiet , little booze - brain . Harry , I am not only amazed at where you are spending your time , but whom you 're spending it with . They say that stepping on a chamomile plant will make it grow faster . But when it comes to youth , the more it is wasted , the faster is wears away . I know you are my son . Your mother says so , I believe so , and the wicked glint in your eye and foolish expression on your face prove it . If it 's true that you are my son , then here is my point : why , since you are my son , do so many people point at you ? Should the blessed sun in heaven waste its time eating blackberries ? That is not a question worth asking . Should the son of the king of England become a thief and steal wallets ? That is worth asking . Harry , you 've heard of a substance known as pitch . Pitch , as the wise men tell us , makes one filthy , and so does the company you keep . Harry , I speak to you not drunk but weeping , not in happiness but in anger , not just in words but also in sadness . And yet , there is a very good and pious man whom I 've often seen you with , but I do not know his name .
You 're too forgiving . Let 's say , for argument 's sake , that it 's not improper to fool around with Ptolemy 's wife , or to trade a kingdom for a joke . That it 's fine to engage in drinking matches with inferiors , or stumble drunkenly through the streets in the middle of the day , or get into fist fights with sweaty servants . Even if we said that this behavior suits him -- though only a man with a perfect character could avoid being disgraced by such antics -- there 's no excuse for the extra work we 've had to take on while he 's been off amusing himself . If he 's been spending his leisure time in lustful pursuits , then he 'll be punished with venereal diseases , and that 's his business . But he 's wasting time and resources vital to our cause and endangering both his position and ours . He should be chastised , like any boy who knows what 's right but chooses to satisfy his desires regardless .
Francis !
What ! A bastard son of the King ? And are n't you Poins , his brother ?
You 're not taking one step toward an enemy .
Where ?
I knew he was n't quite in his right mind .
I have no doubt you will . Good - bye .
Hortensio , good friends like us can get by on a few words . If you can find a woman rich enough for me -- because money is all I look for in a wife -- let her be as ugly as Flotentius 's love , as old as the Sibyl , and as bad-tempered as Xanthippe . It would n't matter one way or the other . I 've come here in search of a rich wife . If I find a rich wife in Padua , I 'll have found a good wife in Padua .
I 'm your love , no matter what you think . And I 'm still faithful to you , just like the famous Limander .
Where is Macbeth , the thane of Cawdor ? We followed closely after him . I hoped to arrive here before him , but he rides swiftly . And his great love , which is as sharp as his spur , helped him beat us here . Fair and noble hostess , we are your guests tonight .
I never caused her any harm , as far as I know .
Please , sir , be quiet . What do you want to say , sir ? I 've just been scolded for speaking to you .
You 've described a warm friend who 's cooling off . Remember this , Lucillius . When a friend starts to get sick of you , he treats you artificially . Plain and simple loyalty does n't make anyone act phony . But insincere men , like horses who are too lively at the start of a race , make a big show of their spirit .
No : he came here for sanctuary , and that will protect him from you . I 'll try to bring him back to his right mind and work to the end of my abilities to do so .
Blab my nonsense ? He must 've heard that phrase describing some great man and now he 's using it on a jester . Blab my nonsense ! What an idiotic place this world is . Now please stop being so strange and tell me what exactly I should blab to my lady . Should I blab to her that you 're coming ?
Oh , we need a stool and a cushion for the sexton .
My lord , the mayor of London is here to greet you .
Lead the way . I 'll stop at every house . I 'm respected enough that most of them will do what I say . --Get your weapons ! And get the officers who guard the city at night . --Let 's go , Roderigo . I 'll reward you for your troubles .
I 'll be getting my own figures together in the meantime . Good - bye .
You told me to make it well and properly and in keeping with the current style .
I overlooked your request , but I did not deny it . Your request came at a time when the poisonous effects of reveling caused me to be unaware of my own actions . I will apologize as much as is appropriate , but my apology will not diminish my great stature -- or if I am denied that honor , I will withhold my military might . The truth is that to get me out of Egypt , Fulvia provoked riots here . And though I am only indirectly the cause of all this trouble , I ask your pardon to the extent that my honor permits me to lower myself in such a situation .
Dead men have to pay their debts . --I challenge you ! --God help us .
Well , then , since Philemon 's roof was thatched with straw , your mask should have a beard .
Many men use that excuse to avoid giving gifts . If your wife 's not a madwoman , and you tell her how much I deserve this ring , she wo n't stay angry at you forever if you give it to me . Well , anyway , goodbye .
Look , he 's recovering .
Should we just get down to it ? Should we skip all that hacking and spitting and saying that we 're hoarse , which only makes clear what lousy singers we are ?
I do n't think so . I 've been practicing fencing constantly since he went off to France . With the handicap they 've given me , I think I 'll win . But I have a sinking feeling anyway . Oh well .
Yes , and that 's a serious failing .
I wish his majesty had brought me with him . The work I did for him while he was alive makes me very vulnerable , now that he 's dead .
Hercules give you speed , young man !
Out of love ?
I 've said what I have to say .
Is she as fiery a shrew as they say ?
Why else would I live in a Christian country , if I ca n't ask forgiveness for my faults ?
I hope God keeps that monster from growing in Othello 's mind !
What time is it ?
Without that proof , this would 've been a savage action ! Our reasons are so well considered that even if you , Antony , were Caesar 's son , you would be satisfied with them .
My brother 's love , the devil , and my own anger made me do it .
Tunis was Carthage , sir .
I hope everything will turn out fine . We must be patient , but I ca n't help crying when I think of him being laid in the cold ground . My brother will hear about this . And so I thank you for your good advice . Come , driver ! Good night , ladies , good night , sweet ladies , good night , good night .
Oh , quick , before I 'm gone .
I thank you with all my heart , Master Bardolph . Welcome , you tall fellow . Come , Sir John .
It 's the wind .
You stupid bastard . Is this how you make me feel better ?
Yes , good Master Snare . I 've filed the suit against him and everything .
Oh , I beseech you , for the love of God , spare me ! I am a gentleman of good family : spare me and I will give you two hundred ecus .
That 's true , my lord . Hotspur fortified himself with nothing but hope , and mistook empty words as a true promise of reinforcements . He imagined that a huge army was coming to his aid , but what actually arrived turned out to be even smaller than the smallest of his fantasies . And so , with daydreams that could only belong to a madman , he closed his eyes and leaped into destruction .
It was probably just a rumor . Good night .
There 's no need for any repayment like that ; and even if there were , you should not be the person to benefit .
I remember .
Go ahead of us and deliver these letters to the Earl of Gloucester . Answer my daughter 's questions about the letter , but do n't tell her anything else you know . If you 're not quick enough , I 'll get there before you .
No. What was it ?
Here 's to your health and long life , Master Silence .
Have you said your prayers tonight , Desdemona ?
Well , well , let 's go .
I 'll tell you as soon as I know , Richard , because at this point I have no idea . All I 've been able to find out is that our brother the king has been listening to prophecies and dreams . He picked out the letter " G " from the alphabet and said a wizard told him that " G " will take the throne away from his children . He thinks " G " is me . I 've learned that this , along with other frivolous reasons like it , is what prompted the king to send me to prison .
Yes sir , we have . Wo n't you sit ?
It was windy on shore too . A big blast of wind shook our fortifications . How could a ship made out of wood hold together in those mountainous waves ? What do you think will be the result of this storm ?
Who measured the ground ?
Who is this bloody man ? Judging from his appearance , I bet he can tell us the latest news about the revolt .
Now , fellow , what have you got there ?
I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed .
Listen to that . It sounds like a contract .
Now , what does he mean by that ? Still harping on my daughter . But he did n't recognize me at first . He mistook me for a fish seller . He 's far gone . But when I was young I went crazy for love too , almost as bad as this . I 'll talk to him again . -- What are you reading , your highness ?
No , add a couple more syllables . Make it eight and eight .
You would n't have expected it based on how he acted as a youth . But no sooner had his father stopped breathing than the prince 's wildness died too . Really , at that precise moment he gained a capacity for reflection , which appeared like an angel to chase away the sinful part of him , leaving his body like a paradise , fit to house only lofty thoughts and feelings . You never saw anyone become serious and studious so quickly . You never saw such a total transformation , as though a wild river , rushing through , had swept away his faults . Such a collection of stubborn character flaws was never banished from one place so suddenly as in the case of this king .
Is it a beggar ?
Your father was an extremely moral man , and religious people get odd ideas on their deathbeds . Your father 's idea was to have a game with three boxes . The suitor who can figure out whether to pick the gold , silver , or lead box will solve your father 's riddle -- and that suitor 's the man for you . No one will ever choose the right box who does n't deserve your love . But tell me . Do you like any of the princely suitors who 've come ?
Well , what happened
Good luck .
We 'll be there .
Too easy . Now we ride off happily . The thieves have scattered , and they 're so terrified that they do n't even want to run into each other -- they 'll each think that the other guy is an officer ! Let 's go , Ned . Falstaff is sweating so hard that he 's watering the ground as he walks along . If I were n't laughing so hard , I 'd actually feel sorry for him .
Does n't this guy realize what he 's doing ? He 's singing while digging a grave .
Enough , gentlemen ! You ca n't influence me on this point . You know how I feel . I 'm determined not to permit my younger daughter to marry until I have a husband for the elder one . I 've long regarded you both as good friends . Therefore , if either of you is partial to Katherina , he shall have my permission to court her freely .
And you wo n't until the needy eat .
Who 's arrived in the harbor ?
Do n't move until we give the signal .
Wherever your soul is off to now , let it carry the name of fool ! You paid too much for that borrowed title . Why did you tell me you were a king ?
his daughter , Katherine , with some insignificant , unprofitable dukedoms as her dowry . The offer does n't go over well , and the nimble gunner now moves to ignite the devilish canon .
Who 's stopping you ?
Take good care of him . He brings great news .
Hang him immediately .
An honest guy who 's as poor as the king .
Was it mine ?
Yes , kind sister . We can all go together .
Maybe I should ask you what right you have to take me , but I 'll take you , Orlando , to be my husband . Look , I 've sped ahead of the priest and answered the question before he even asked . A woman 's thoughts are always running ahead of her actions .
Good Michael , keep a careful eye on the guards tonight . Let 's exercise restraint and not let the party get too wild .
Right , and well said . That guy 's funny . He 's got a head full of logs . Goodness , it 's daylight . The count will be here soon with music . At least he said he would . I hear him coming near .
Where did you leave him ?
You 'll leave his lecture when I 'm in tune ?
But I have a legitimate son a few years older than this one , and I do n't love him any more than I love my bastard . Edmund may have snuck into the world a little before his time , but his mother was pretty , we had a fun time making him , and now I have to acknowledge the guy as my son . --Do you know this gentleman , Edmund ?
Let me come in , and I 'll tell you why I came . I come from Lady Juliet .
That 's very strange .
I 'm talking about myself . I know I have so many vices that when people see all of them exposed , evil Macbeth will seem as pure as snow in comparison , and poor Scotland will call him a sweet lamb when they compare him to me and my infinite evils .
Good morning , gentlemen .
Perhaps you 've learned from life and not from books . But please tell me , can you read anything you see ?
You 'd break a date with your beloved by a whole hour ? A man who will dare to meet his lover even a thousandth part of a minute late -- well , it 's possible he likes her , but I doubt he really loves the woman .
Curse my hand if it ever threatened an old man like you . Really , I had no intention of going for my sword .
I 'll bet we 're both thinking the same thing , master .
But please , tell me : is he coming home ? It seems he has taken great care to please his wife .
I 'm at your service .
Most royal sir , Fleance has escaped .
It means that something is rotten in the state of Denmark .
Moron ! I 'm telling you to make a fist and pound .
That 's true . It 's too bad their beauty fades right when it reaches perfection !
No wonder , with all your exertions , you cowardly rascal . You 're not worth being called a man . The only thing manly about you are your clothes . A tailor made you .
Where 's the crown ? Who took it off my pillow ?
Hastings loved the prince 's father so much that we wo n't be able to persuade him to do anything against the prince .
No , she talks too much . She 's always talking when I want to sleep . I admit that in front of you , my lady , she keeps a bit quiet . But she 's scolding me silently .
What did that gentile fool say to you , hmmm ?
Her reputation is also her own . Can she give that away too ?
Accursed , unhappy , wretched , hateful day ! This is the most miserable hour of all time ! I had only one child , one poor child , one poor and loving child , the one thing I had to rejoice and comfort myself , and cruel Death has stolen it from me !
What 's the name of this forest behind us ?
Him , smart ? Hang him , he 's a baboon ! He 's as thick as mustard , and no smarter than a sledgehammer .
Let me just finish this round . Set it down awhile . Let 's play .
Trebonius knows his cue . See , Brutus , he 's pulling Mark Antony aside .
Dear Celia --I already look much happier than I feel , but you want me to look even happier ? Unless you can also teach me how to forget my banished father , you should n't try to teach me how to be happy .
Is she dead , then ?
Well , if you have n't renounced your old faith yet , we ca n't trust anything anymore .
She 's a good little woman , and she adores me . What about it ?
Then you 'd better say that I 'm not Lucentio .
They have n't been commanded to go to the west , mighty king . If your Majesty would like , I 'll muster up my friends and meet you wherever and whenever you like .
I would have listened to less important news with greater enthusiasm . Menas , I had no idea this amorous glutton would have put on his helmet for such an insignificant war . His military ability is double that of the other two . We must form a better opinion of ourselves if our uprising can pull the insatiable Antony 's attention away from that Egyptian widow .
My lord ?
Are my master and his wife coming , Grumio ?
Come , I 'll show you your bridal chamber .
Every day you put me off with some trick . Instead of finding opportunities for me , you seem to be preventing me from making any progress .
This is a horrible sight . Our news arrives from England too late , since the people that should have heard it are dead . We meant to tell the king that his orders have been carried out , and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead . Who will thank us now ?
I 'm the same . I 'm so sick of bad luck and trouble that I 'd risk my life on any bet , as long as it would either fix my life or end it once and for all .
She would make a good wife for Benedick .
Wait till Monday , my dear son , which is only a week away . Even that is too short a time to plan things the way I would like .
Oh , sweetheart , I did n't mean anything naughty when I said that . When lovers talk to each other , their hearts should understand each other . I just meant that our hearts are joined , so we can almost think of them as one heart . Our two bodies are linked together by the promises we 've made to each other , so there are two bodies and one faithful vow . So let me sleep next to you . If I lie next to you , I wo n't lie to you --I 'll be faithful and respect you .
Enough , enough , my lord . You 've heard enough evidence ! I insist that the law punish him --They were going to run away , Demetrius , they were running away to defeat us , robbing you of your wife and me of my fatherly right to decide who my son-in-law will be .
Why , what 's the matter ?
It 's true , I confess . Oh , sir , someone would think I was a good fake . Please tell your brother what a convincing show I put on . Whoo-hoo !
Or the wailing of a bagpipe .
The army is dismissed , and everyone 's gone .
Well , the tree bears rotten fruit .
No , he just gets reality completely wrong .
Hastings got his freedom by bowing down to that goddess . And I 'll tell you what . If we want to stay in the king 's good graces , we 're going have to act like the mistress 's servants , too . Ever since our brother made them gentlewomen , Mistress Shore and the queen have become mighty busybodies in our kingdom .
Is your name Shylock ?
You 've come right on time .
Ask it something , Horatio .
By God , then I 'll be a traitor when you become king .
Oh , not you again . What do you want ? Should we all give up and drown ? Do you want to sink ?
Oh , this is wonderful , wonderful -- just wonderful wonderful ! And another wonderful , and beyond - my - ability - to - express wonderful !
This is what happens when you visit whores . Please , Emilia , ask Cassio where he was at dinner tonight . -- What , does that make you nervous ?
And this is why your relatives never visit , frightened away by this unnatural insanity of yours . Oh noble lord , consider your lineage . Try to recall your former state of mental health and forget these crass , lowly desires . Look how your servants wait on you , each one ready to do whatever you command . Would you care to hear some music ? Listen ! That 's Apollo playing .
No , because my manly heart is grieving . Bardolph , be happy . --Nym , rouse your bragging spirits . --Boy , be brave . Falstaff is dead , and we must mourn him .
What in the world is going on ! Young lady , where do you get the nerve ! -- Get behind me , Bianca . --Poor girl , she 's hysterical ! --Go do some sewing . Do n't even talk to her . You monstrous , good-for-nothing fiend ! Why would you want to hurt your sister ? She never did you any harm ! When has she spoken even one cross word to you ?
Every man 's conscience is a thousand swords against this murderer .
Has anyone seen Cesario ?
She was here just now . She hangs around me all the time . I was talking to some Venetians down by the shore , and the fool showed up . I swear to you , she put her arms around me like this --
It 's midnight . I 'll go put my armor on .
Let 's go , my lord .
I see that you are here , but I 'd like you to go there and then come back again .
If I ever see it , I will challenge you .
Let them be comforted --I 'm returning to Scotland . Gracious King Edward has sent us noble Siward and ten thousand soldiers . There is no soldier more experienced or successful than Siward in the entire Christian world .
How could you ask ?
He 'll think these letters are from Olivia and that she 's in love with him .
I know he will , madam .
Knight , I 'll fire up your noble liver and make you enraged . Doll , the goddess of your thoughts , is imprisoned in a horrible jail , tossed there by a heartless and filthy hand . Stoke up dark revenge from your deepest belly and set loose the serpents of hell . Doll is in . Pistol speaks nothing but the truth .
It 's a capital offense for anyone from Mantua to come to Padua . Did n't you know ? The Duke of Padua has publicly proclaimed it . He 's feuding with your duke , and all ships from Mantua are being held up at Venice . It 's strange that you have n't heard . There are signs up all over town -- but I guess it 's because you 've only just arrived .
What three things does drink make a man do ?
Noticing all this poverty , I said to myself , " If a man needed some poison " -- which they would immediately kill you for selling in Mantua -- " here is a miserable wretch who 'd sell it to him . " Oh , this idea came before I needed the poison . But this same poor man must sell it to me . As I remember , this should be the house . Today 's a holiday , so the beggar 's shop is shut . Hey ! Pharmacist !
strength , height , bulk , and overall size ? Give me his spirit , Master Shallow ! Take a look at Wart . You see how ragged he looks ? He can load and fire steadily -- as steadily as a tinsmith 's hammer . He can advance and regroup fast -- faster than a brewer 's delivery pail can be refilled . And this skinny guy , Shadow -- give me this man . He offers no target to the enemy . The enemy might as well try aiming at a knife 's edge . And as for retreating , Feeble , the woman 's tailor , will run faster than you can imagine . Oh , give me the spare men and spare me the great ones ! Bardolph , give Wart a musket .
I 'll tell you what , you stick - figure; I 'll have you beaten soundly for this . You blue - coated rogue , you filthy , starving correctioner ! If you are n't walloped for this , I 'll swear off skirts .
Keep working , poison ! This is the way to trick gullible fools . Many good and innocent women are punished for reasons like this . --My lord ? My lord , Othello !
You have a beautiful half - sister , Octavia . Great Mark Antony is a widower now .
I refuse your request . I 'm arresting you as a criminal .
I 'm not going to eat dinner tonight . Give me some ink and paper . Is the visor of my helmet working better now ? And has my armor been put in my tent ?
I must go in . Oh , a woman 's heart is so weak ! Oh Brutus , may the gods aid you in your endeavor ! Surely , the boy heard me . Brutus has a claim that Caesar wo n't grant . Oh , I feel faint . Run , Lucius , and speak well of me to my lord . Say that I 'm happy . Then return to me and tell me what he says to you .
Got it , sir .
Here is a gentleman I happened to meet who , if we can come to an arrangement that would be to his liking , is willing to undertake to woo fierce Katherine - -yes , even willing to marry her , if the price is right .
We 'll meet when the noise of the battle is over , when one side has won and the other side has lost .
Well , not in deed , madam , since I ca n't do anything unchaste . But I do have intense passions -- and I do think about what Venus did with MarsVenus , goddess of love , and Mars , god of war , were legendary lovers.what Venus did with Mars .
That 's not so , my lord . False angels are light , and anyone can see without having to weigh me that I 'm too heavy . But I do n't know ; in some ways , you 're right . I 'm not for these times . Virtue counts for so little in this commercial world of ours . True courage is worthless ; it 's only used by animal trainers in the bear-baiting rings . Intelligence is good for nobody but bartenders , who waste their wits totaling up tavern bills . In these mean-spirited days , man 's best qualities are n't worth a thing . You older folks do n't value us young people . You measure our fiery passion according to your melancholic bitterness . And I have to tell you , those of us who are highly advanced in our youth , we 're spirited as well as young .
Very clever ! But what if the woman is smart but ugly ?
I 'm not marvelous , sir , but I 'm certainly a maiden .
Treason ! Treason !
Well then , if I 've ever thanked a man , I 'll thank you now . But two men complimenting each other is like two baboons getting together . Whenever a man compliments me , I feel like he 's a beggar and I just gave him a penny -- an embarrassing exchange . Come on , sing -- and those of you who wo n't sing , shut up .
It 's that arrogant Montague , the one who 's been banished . He 's the one who murdered my love 's cousin Tybalt . They think she died with grief for that cousin . This guy has come here to commit awful crimes against the dead bodies . I 'll catch him .
If they had n't left soon , I would have died laughing .
Indeed , she 'll act just like me .
And he deserves it , having been excellent before he had a reputation for it . When are you getting married , madam ?
Leonato and his brother . What do you think ? I think if we had fought , we would have proven too young and strong for them after all .
Yes , with Cassio . If she 'd been faithful to me , I never would have given her up , not even if God himself offered me a jewel as big as a planet in exchange for her .
Why is that ?
If we can come to an agreement here , we 'll move on to Parthia . Listen , Ventidius .
My God , that was well done , my lord , with the right accent and a good ear .
So if the Turks steal Cyprus from us , it wo n't be bad as long as we keep smiling . It 's easy to accept platitudes like that if you have n't lost anything . But I 've lost something precious , and I have to put up with the platitude as well as suffering my loss . Talk is cheap . I 've never heard of someone feeling better because of someone else 's words . Please , I 'm asking you , go ahead and get back to your state affairs .
Draw your sword , you jerk ! You come here with letters against the king , and you take his conceited daughter 's side against his royal highness . Draw your sword , scoundrel , or I 'll slice your thighs like flank steak . Draw your sword ! Come on !
We know each other 's faces , but as for our thoughts , he does n't know any more about my thinking than I do about yours or his -- or you do about mine . Lord Hastings , you and he are close .
Sweet Moon , I thank you for your sunny beams . I thank you , Moon , for shining now so bright , because by the light of your gracious , golden , glittering gleams , I hope to be able to see my faithful Thisbe . --But wait . Oh no ! But , look , poor me , what a terrible tragedy is here ! Eyes , do you see ? How can it be ? Oh , dainty duck ! Oh , dear ! Your cloak so good , what , stained with blood ? Come , terrible Furies , and punish whoever has hurt her ! Oh , Fate , come and cut the thread of my life . Conquer , crush , conclude , and kill !
Welcome , Sir Walter Blunt . I wish to God you were on our side . Many of us think very highly of you , though we begrudge you your honor and reputation , since you fight on the enemy 's side .
You 're in charge of this hell ! You ! We 've finished our business . Here 's some money for you . Please lock the door and keep quiet .
I 'm starting to lose my mind . Come on , my boy . How are you ? Are you cold ? I 'm cold myself . Where 's this hut , man ? Odd how when you 're desperate , even shoddy things like this hut can seem precious . Show me where that hut is . Poor fool , part of me still feels sorry for you .
God bless your Grace ! We understand you 're just doing it for us , and we 'll be sure to say so .
It 's an outstanding army and highly motivated .
Do n't worry about me . --Your sister and the duke are here .
Oh , if only my smiles could inspire love as effectively as your frowns !
I 'll give it a try . Stay right here and try to look good . This may end without anyone getting killed . I 'll ride your horse just like I ride you .
The handkerchief !
What , what , what ? Bad luck , bad luck ?
A jealous woman , a jealous woman !
What else ?
Yes , my lord , as long as you wo n't lead me toward peace .
Sweet princes , what I did , I did honorably , impartially , and with a clear conscience . You wo n't see me begging vilely for a pardon , which is sure to be withdrawn as soon as it is given . If truth and honest innocence do n't help me , then I 'll join my dead King and tell him who sent me .
Antonio , oh my dear Antonio ! I 've been so tortured since I lost track of you !
Never , my lord . But I 've often heard him argue that when sons are at their prime and their fathers are declining , the sons should be their fathers ' guardians and manage their fathers ' money .
What ? Say that again : he said that Harry Percy 's spur was cold ? Hotspur is now " Coldspur ? " That the rebels had bad luck ?
Let me wipe it off first . It stinks of death .
Me neither , until I see mine again !
Well , should we go out ?
Why is my lord enraged against his love ?
That was poor , Benedick ! Give him another lance -- that last one got broken in half .
Oh , you little liar ! How much worse will you be when you 're older ? Maybe you 'll get so good at deceit that your tricks will destroy you . Goodbye , and take her . Just never set foot in any place where you and I might happen to meet .
Right here in Denmark . I 've been the church warden here for thirty years , since childhood .
His arrow has pierced me too deeply , so I ca n't fly high with his cheerful feathers . Because this wound keeps me down , I ca n't leap any higher than my dull sadness . I sink under the heavy weight of love .
It 's the faction that wants to kill Caesar . Oh , conspiracy , are you ashamed to show your face even at night , when evil things are most free ? If so , when it 's day , where are you going to find a cave dark enough to hide your monstrous face ? No , do n't bother to find a cave , conspiracy . Instead , hide your true face behind smiles and friendliness .
Who put my servant in the stocks ? Regan , I hope you did n't know anything about that . --Ah , who 's this ? Dear gods , if you love old men like me , if you believe in obedience , if you yourselves are old , then please send me down some help ! Are n't you ashamed to look at me after the way you 've treated me in my old age?- -Oh , Regan , are you taking her by the hand ?
Soldier , you are . But Antony 's decisions are n't coming from his extensive experience . Our leader is being led . We are following a woman .
What 's the matter ? There are four of us here who stole a thousand pounds this very morning .
He 's been killed .
He speaks well .
If I break the door down , slave , you 'll be sorry for this .
Richard and Buckingham have a high opinion of you . So high they 'll stick your head on the Bridge .
Gentle cousin , let 's go thank him and encourage him . My my father 's rude and envious behavior is like a knife through my heart . Sir , you fought very well . If you live up to your potential in love as well , your wife will be a very happy woman .
What can human knowledge do to make him sane again ? I 'd give all my wealth to whoever can help him .
Most formidable Queen !
That makes me love you even more . Everyone who hears you can shout , " Amen . "
Then the liars are fools , for there are enough liars in the world to beat up the honest men and hang them .
This is how they do it , sir : they measure the depth of the Nile , according to certain marks made on the walls of the Pyramid . They know by those measurements if there will be famine or plenty . The higher the Nile flows , the better the harvest . As the river ebbs , the farmer scatters his seeds on the remaining silt . The harvest comes shortly after that .
You should n't have believed me , since we 're all rotten at the core , no matter how hard we try to be virtuous . I did n't love you .
I know him . How much does my husband owe ?
No news as bad as the news at home : The king is sickly , weak , and depressed , and his doctors are very afraid he 's going to die
Monsieur le Fer .
I , on the other hand , do n't feel how she could be loved and do n't know how she could be worthy . Even fire ca n't melt that opinion out of me . You could burn me at the stake , and I 'd still think this .
I think he 's nervous -- he 's about to become the savage bull who got domesticated . Oh , do n't worry about it -- we 'll dip your horns in gold and make you pretty , and you 'll delight all of Europe , just like Jove delighted Europa when he was a bull .
These attacks will be the death of him .
This is what I 'm saying . Although this lord who has such a bad memory -- and who will be forgotten by the world when he 's dead and buried -- almost succeeded in convincing the king that his son 's alive , it 's impossible that he survived . It 's as far from the truth as saying this sleeping man is swimming .
Master Constable , you 're going about this all wrong . First , you have to speak to the watchmen who accused them .
Poor man , how did you go insane ?
Jesus , Jesus , dead ! He was a good archer , and dead ! He could fire one heck of a shot . John of Gaunt loved him , and used to wager on his shooting . Dead ! He could hit a target from two hundred and forty yards , and he could shoot a straight arrow two hundred and eighty yards -- maybe even two hundred and ninety . That was something to see . How much are they getting for twenty ewes ?
So that means she 'll come .
I drink to the happiness of everyone at the table , and to our dear friend Banquo , whom we miss . I wish he were here ! Let 's drink to everyone here , and to Banquo . Now , everybody , drink
That 's the way it should be -- only Antony should conquer Antony . But how terrible that it has happened !
As I said before , Antonio will guarantee the loan . If I default , he 'll pay you .
Well , we all have our special gifts . Some people are born wise ; those of us who were meant to be fools should do what they do best .
No , I swear ; I never heard a challenge issued more gracefully . It was like a brother asking a brother to a little friendly competition . He paid you all due respect , and he summed up your good qualities in the most princely language . He spoke of how deserving you are , as though he were your biographer . He claimed you were even above praise , for simple praise could never measure up to your true merits . And he gave a modest account of himself , as well , which made him seem like a true prince indeed . He berated himself for having behaved wildly , but he said this so gracefully that he sounded like a teacher giving a lesson and a student learning one at the same time . There he stopped , but let me say this : if he survives this battle , then England never had a sweeter hope , nor one so misunderstood in his recklessness .
Please , sir , rule in favor of William Visor of Woncot in his lawsuit against Clement Perkes of the hill .
If you see vengeance --
I do n't blame you for praising Caesar like this , but what agreement do you intend to reach with us ? Will you be counted as our friend , or should we proceed without depending on you ?
Would it even be possible to buy a jewel as rare and precious as Hero ?
Had the gods taken pity on us , I would n't be here calling them merciless . The two ships had n't come within ten leagues of us when our ship hit a huge rock and split down the middle . As we were unjustly separated from each other , both my wife and I were left with something to delight in and something to sorrow over . For her part - the poor soul ! Her half of the mast weighed less , but she was no luckier than I was : the wind carried her away more quickly . I saw them rescued by fishermen from Corinth - or so I thought . After a while , another ship rescued me and the two boys who were with me . The sailors knew me , so they took good care of us . Our ship would have caught up with the other ship and taken back my wife and the children , but we sailed too slowly and their ship sped toward their home . So now you 've heard how I was separated from everything I love . It 's been my bad luck to remain alive long enough to be able to tell the sad stories of my own misfortunes .
Oh , I 'm dying , Horatio ! This strong poison 's overpowering me . I will not live to hear the news from England . But I bet Fortinbras will win the election to the Danish crown . He 's got my vote as I die . So tell him that , given the recent events here -- oh , the rest is silence . Oh , oh , oh , oh .
I do n't mean merely bands of thieves . What we have to worry about is a full-scale invasion from Scotland -- always an unreliable neighbor . You 'll find that my great-grandfather never went to war with France without Scotland making an attack on his undefended kingdom , pouring in full force like the tide through a gap in a dyke , troubling the depleted country with violent attacks , and laying siege to towns and castles . The whole of England , being unprotected , trembled with fear .
I want you .
It would be difficult to feel that way over a thing like this .
I 'm no villain . I 'm the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys , and anyone who claims my father 's sons are villains is a villain himself . If you were n't my brother , I 'd leave this hand of mine on your neck until I 'd pulled out your tongue for talking like this . You 've only insulted yourself .
I ca n't hit him . I 'd be hanged .
All right , let 's sit down and discuss that question . Somebody tell me why this strict schedule of guards has been imposed , and why so many bronze cannons are being manufactured in Denmark , and so many weapons bought from abroad , and why the shipbuilders are so busy they do n't even rest on Sunday . Is something about to happen that warrants working this night and day ? Who can explain this to me ?
We 'll see , wo n't we ? Do your best .
What fate is that ?
Please be quiet .
He did , but Macduff told the messenger , " No way . " The messenger scowled and rudely turned his back on Macduff , as if to say , " You 'll regret the day you gave me this answer . "
Think about our situation , then die .
Your Highness just told me that I should ride there before you .
I 'll have to do something courageous then , because I hate intrigue . I 'd rather be a heretic than a schemer with fancy plots .
Can a man do it ?
Now , sir , we need some new chain for the bucket . And sir , do you plan to dock William 's pay for the wine he lost at the Hinckley fair ?
You 're taking a shorter route . My plans take me a roundabout way . You 'll get there two days before me .
Yes , madam , it is , if it 's all right with you .
There was n't any problem . I do n't even know him .
Absolutely , you idiot .
I 'll go so fast I 'll burn up the air , and come back in two heartbeats .
Well , but what time is it ?
My lord , the strings are out of tune .
You follow the young Prince everywhere , like a false angel on his shoulder .
Why , then , it 's time to put on my armor and instruct the troops . I ca n't tell you much right now , loyal countrymen , because we do n't have time . But know this :
You know your own ranks , so you know where to sit . Sit down . From the highest to the lowest of you , I bid you a hearty welcome .
Madam , you 're not exempt from this -- nor are you , Dorset -- nor you , Buckingham . You have had too many separate factions among you . My dear wife , let Lord Hastings kiss your hand . And do n't do it merely for appearance 's sake .
Drowned , drowned .
Just a minute . I do n't need anyone to tell me when to fight . You 've accused me of some serious crimes . Where do you want me to go to respond to these charges ?
My gracious king .
Sir , my mistress sends you word that she is busy and cannot come .
You have some plea for Caesar , do n't you ?
Yes , for your own safety , you should deny one thing : you have been a great thief at sea .
Really , he 's very witty , and full of wise sayings .
Well , God bless this marriage !
Well , then , we 're awake . Let 's follow him . We can tell one another our dreams along the way .
Go where , my lord?- -Cesario , my husband , stay here .
Please do , madam . My husband 's so upset about Cassio 's problem you 'd think it was his own .
Bardolph , get our horses ready .
But excuse me , ergo , old man , ergo , I 'm asking you if you 're talking about young Master Launcelot .
I have sixty ships . Caesar does n't have any that are better .
Oh noble Buckingham , I 'll kiss your hand to show my friendship and support for you . I wish only good things upon you and your noble family ! Your clothes are n't spattered with my family 's blood , and you are n't affected by my curse .
No more than a minute ?
Not for your entire fairy kingdom . --Come , fairies , let 's go . We 're going to have an out-and-out brawl if I stay any longer .
Go to the Centaur and get our stuff . I wish we were safely on board our ship already .
Well , cooks help create gluttony , by making and selling food -- the object of gluttony . And you help create diseases , Doll . We catch them from you , Doll , we catch them from you : admit it .
Oh , young and noble Cato , have you been slain ? Why , you die now as bravely as Titinius . And you , being Cato 's son , will be honored .
Not in the least .
Where have you come from , worthy thane ?
I 'd follow you to the gates of Hell , you sneaky little devil !
I 'll go to him .
Mantua , sir ? Oh Lord , I hope not . And coming to Padua ? Do you want to get killed ?
You told me to do the same , my liege .
Did you hear me ?
The ones you 've sent our lunatic king to . Tell us .
Examine them yourselves , then bring me your findings . Now I 'm in a great hurry , as I 'm sure you can see .
You 're awful for saying so : you or any man would know where to put me , you brute , you !
There goes a strong fellow , Menas .
Oh my lord , I need to speak to you !
That young man who was just here . But he does n't really care about buying anything .
What are you reading , teacher ? Answer me that first .
Now Travers , what good news do you have ?
Here , sir .
What do you call a person who builds stronger things than a stonemason , a shipbuilder , or a carpenter does ?
But if you 're really sorry for me , you can cure me . If you 're sorry for the grief I feel in loving you , you can love me back . Then both my grief and your sorrow will be cured .
They 're really being spoken , sir , and they 're true .
I was conceived by a woman , and I thank her very much for all her effort . And then she brought me up , and I thank her for that , too . But all the other women will have to forgive me for not being willing to be made a fool of -- cheated on by a wife . I do n't want to insult any particular woman by doubting and mistrusting her , so I 'll just avoid them all . And the conclusion of this is that I 'll live as a bachelor -- and , with the money I save , dress better .
He brought one of them just now .
Long live the king !
Stay hidden .
You have to speak up ; my master is deaf .
Just say it .
So if we know that a man is a thief , should we try to arrest him ?
I ca n't talk now . I 'll listen to you later . Take them away .
Oh , this boy lends us all courage !
I 'll do any decent thing , my lord , to help my cousin get a good husband .
I 'm going now . If you 're as good at pleading to them as I am at saying no to you , this will definitely come to a happy end .
Where is my gracious lord of Canterbury ?
I wish some god could help me choose ! Let me see . I 'll look over the inscriptions again . What does the lead box say ? " He who chooses me must give and risk all he has . " Must give everything -- for what ? For lead ? Risk everything for lead ? This box is too threatening . Men who risk everything hope to make profits . A golden mind does n't bend down to choose something worthless . So I wo n't give or risk anything for lead . What does the silver one say ?
Oh , Luciana , did he tempt you like that ? Could you tell from his face if he was serious ? Yes or no ? Did he look flushed or pale ? Sad or happy ? Could you tell from his looks what he was feeling in his heart ?
Which speech , my lord ?
We must remember the gravity of this sad day . We should speak what we feel , not what we ought to say . The oldest one suffered the most . We young ones will never see as much as he has seen , or live as long .
You should say , " I sort of know him , but not well . Is it the same Laertes who 's a wild party animal ? Is n't he the one who 's always , " and so on . Then just make up whatever you want -- of course , nothing so bad that it would shame him . I mean make up any stories that
Yes , and I 'll do everything I just said .
And the Spanish finger to you !
Has Caesar gone to the Capital yet ?
Me too .
We 'll take care of it . It 's a sacred duty to protect the lives of all those who depend on Your Highness .
Antonio , you know how bad my finances have been lately . I 've been living way beyond my means . Do n't get me wrong , I 'm not complaining about having to cut back .
I thought the king preferred the Duke of Albany to the Duke of Cornwall .
Yes , Casca . Tell us what happened today that put Caesar in such a serious mood .
Tybalt , old Capulet 's nephew , has sent a letter to Romeo 's father 's house .
Would I ever deny you anything ? No. Goodbye , my husband .
Or tripped , you lowlife football player ?
Sure , since beauty 's power can more easily change a good girl into a whore than the power of goodness can change a beautiful girl into a virgin . This used to be a great puzzle , but now I 've solved it . I used to love you .
The news of peace has been announced . Listen to them shout !
Oh , no -- what 's that noise ?
Since you left , I 've been enjoying the sweetest sleep and most promising dreams I 've ever had , my lords . I dreamed the souls of the people Richard murdered came to my tent and promised me victory . I tell you , I feel very jolly remembering such a beautiful dream . How late is it , lords ?
The voice kept crying , " Sleep no more ! " to everyone in the house . " Macbeth has murdered sleep , and therefore Macbeth will sleep no more . "
Greetings , Captain Fluellen ! Have you just come from the bridge ?
Good morning , noble sir .
Let 's go to this great feast . They 'll be even happier now that my mood has lightened . It 's too bad the cook does n't think like me ; she would have poisoned them all if she did . Should we go check out the scene ?
I remember his face well . Though the last time I saw him it was black from the smoke of war . He was the captain of a flimsy boat that was practically worthless because it was so small . But with that tiny boat he fought such a fierce battle against the largest warship in our fleet that we had to admire his courage and skill even though he caused us a lot of damage . --What 's going on ?
He 's here , sir , but please do n't bother him . He 's out of his right mind .
Well , it afflicts me , although saying so dims my nobility somewhat . Does it make me seem coarse and common to say that I 'd love a small beer ?
There 's music coming out of thin air .
Beatrice , have you come because I called for you ?
One of you go find the forest ranger . Since we 're done with the May Day rites and it 's still so early in the morning , my love will have a chance to hear the beautiful music of my hunting dogs barking as they chase their prey . Unleash the dogs in the western valley . Let them go . Now go find the forest ranger .
Absolutely , yes indeed .
It 's true : the women she makes beautiful she also makes slutty , and the women she makes pure and virginal she also makes ugly .
Listen ! There 's more knocking . Put on your nightgown , in case someone comes and sees that we 're awake . Snap out of your daze .
Forgive us , my lord .
I 'll show this to the general . Please , let 's meet at a place where both our armies can see us . Then either let our talks end in peace --God willing ! -- or let us take the fight to the battlefield where it will be decided .
I hope your horses are fast and surefooted . And with that , I send you to them . Farewell .
Only a buzzard would think so .
I did n't say free , madam . No , I did n't say that . He 's bound to Octavia .
Cicero too ?
My goodness ! If you were an honest man , you 'd give yourself to me , as well as the money . You swore to me -- over a gold-plated wine goblet , in the Dolphin Room in my tavern , at the round table , next to the fire , on the Wednesday seven weeks after Easter , when the Prince swung at your head for claiming his father was a fake -- you swore , while I was cleaning your wounds , to marry me and make me a proper lady and your wife . Can you deny it ? Did n't Mrs. Baconfat , the butcher 's wife , come into the room then and ask to borrow some vinegar , saying that she had some good prawns -- and you wanted to eat some , and I told you that it was a bad idea , to eat shrimp when you had a fresh wound -- and
All right , I 'll stay another month . Ah , I 'm an odd kind of guy . Sometimes all I want to do is see plays and go out dancing .
I want to forget what I am . Such a kind father ! --Are my horses ready ?
Nothing , my lord .
Which ones are the malefactors ?
Good night .
I 'm not a traitor , unfair lady .
I am satisfied . Caesar has made camp in Alexandria . I will fight him there . Our land forces have bravely stood firm . Our tattered navy has reassembled and set sail , as formidable as the sea itself . Where have you been , my bravery ? Do you hear what I say , lady ? If I come back from the battlefield again to kiss those lips , I 'll be covered in blood . My sword and I will earn our place in history . We still have hope .
Honor and safety do not go together .
You should be tied to him , since he tied himself up so much for you .
Now , sir , where is Claudio ? Did you see him ?
Are you all good and honest men ?
Not much , my lord . Just that the world 's become honest .
Sir , the person who should sing that song is n't here .
You are as well provided in both respects as any prince in the world .
Farewell , good Salisbury ; and may good luck go with you .
Come and wash , Kate , make yourself at home . Son of a bitch , you spilled it !
If we let every sad thing that happens to us get us down , then we would find ourselves --
Yes , I should know , but it disturbs me . Are you on duty again tonight ?
My lady , what 's wrong with your husband ?
Nothing much , just to demonstrate that a king can move through the bowels of a beggar .
Yes , I do , sir .
When you wake up , see things with your own foolish eyes again .
And that 's everything , Leonato . --Claudio , Benedick -- my dear friend Leonato has invited you all to stay here at Messina . I told him we 'll stay for at least a month , and he says that he hopes we 'll stay longer . I think he 's actually serious , and not just being polite .
And you 're right to do so . May the guilty party be punished by death . Please , come with me .
My father and I are friends again , and I can do whatever I want .
Never mind . Tell Iras 's fortune .
Oh God , God ! It 's difficult to bring two friends together , but even mountains can be moved together by earthquakes .
I 'm sorry to hear this .
Performing is activity , and he is always doing that .
Why , Fool ?
It is . Do you think it would work ?
Brutus , may I have a word with you ? You do n't know what you 're doing . Do n't let Antony speak at his funeral . Do n't you know how much the people could be affected by what he says ?
This is how rebellions always end --defeated . Evil - spirited Worcester ! Did n't I offer kindness , forgiveness and friendship to all of you ? And you pretended that I did the opposite ? Your relatives and friends trusted you , yet you lied to them ? Three of our knights who were killed today , a noble earl , and many other men might have been alive right now if you had been a decent man and reported truthfully on the negotiations between our two armies .
Nightingale , melodiously Sing our sweet lullaby . Lulla , lulla , lullaby , lulla , lulla , lullaby . Let no harm Or spell or charm Come near our lovely lady . Say good night with a lullaby .
Here is the money .
If you trust what they say , you might be on your way to becoming king , as well as thane of Cawdor . But this whole thing is strange . The agents of evil often tell us part of the truth in order to lead us to our destruction . They earn our trust by telling us the truth about little things , but then they betray us when it will damage us the most . Gentlemen , I 'd like to have a word with you , please .
Oh , your contemptible lady ! She has disarmed me .
Are you ready ?
You should call their names generally , one person at a time , in the order in which their names appear on this piece of paper .
Really ? I did n't hear it . So it 's nearly the time when the ghost likes to appear .
My lord , what are you talking about ?
Well , we 'll see about that .
Oh , please do . He 'll say a few nasty things about me , and if nobody listens to him or laughs , he 'll be thrown into a funk . And that will save a partridge wing from being eaten , because he 'll be too miserable for dinner .
With all due respect , Petruchio , give someone else a chance to speak . You 're so aggressive !
You would be committing a wicked sin by chiding other people for sinning , because you yourself have been a terrible sinner , as carnal in your appetites as lust itself , and all the swollen pustules of sin that you acquired in your freedom you now want to burst and shoot back into the world at large .
Me too , my lord .
We 'll win yet .
Let 's go to the temple first . You can take your chances after dinner .
Then I 'll see you again ?
Here 's another letter from his pocket , addressed to Iago and full of complaints . We think he was going to send it to Iago , but then Iago stepped in and answered his complaints by killing him .
Well , then , let me know whether you will give me the earldom some other time .
Are you considering desertion , as well ? Then everything must really be finished .
The opportunity to serve you is its own reward . Your only duty , your highness , is to accept what we owe you . Our duty to you and your state is like the duty of children to their father or servants to their master . By doing everything we can to protect you , we 're only doing what we should .
I wish I could believe you that all was well ! But I 'm worried that things can only go downhill from here .
I 'll do that , without giving away our secret .
My lord , I 'll say goodbye now .
I swear to you , I do n't want to be doing this .
Then we 'll be stuffed with news .
Look how lush and healthy the grass is ! How green !
She wants you to lie down on the rush - covered floor and rest your head in her lap . She 'll sing whatever song you like , and she 'll lull you to sleep . She 'll bewitch you into a pleasant heaviness , halfway between waking and sleeping ; like the hour just before the sun begins its golden rise in the east .
Who , Sir Andrew Aguecheek ?
We should cut this fatso 's ears off .
Well , I hope not . But come , my lord . With a heavy heart , thinking about my dead uncles , I will go to the Tower .
When he could n't persuade me to kill you . I told him that the gods hate men who kill their fathers and unleash all their thunder on them , and that the bond between father and child was sacred . In short , when I told him how firmly opposed I was to his hideous plan , he pulled out his sword and lunged at my defenseless body , cutting my arm . Bolstered by righteousness , I prepared to fight , and when he saw my excitement -- or perhaps because my shouting scared him -- he ran away suddenly .
No , that 's not it , trust me . Thankfully my financial situation is healthy . I do n't have all of my money invested in one ship , or one part of the world . If I do n't do well this year , I 'll still be okay . So it 's not my business that 's making me sad .
The duke of Exeter is as courageous as Agamemnonand a man whom I love and honor deeply , with my soul , and my heart , and my duty , and my life , and my livelihood , to the very utmost of my being . He is not --God be praised and blessed -- hurt in any way but is holding the bridge most valiantly , with excellent discipline . There is a standard-bearer there at the bridge . I truly think he is as valiant a man as Mark Antony . He is a man of no rank or consequence , but I saw him fight as gallantly as though he were .
She 's very sick .
Here 's the indictment of the good Lord Hastings , which has been written out in a clear hand , like any legal document , so it can be read aloud in public outside St. Paul 's Cathedral . And look how well this sequence of events holds together : after Catesby brought the indictment to me last night , I spent eleven hours copying it . The original took just as long to write out . So that 's twenty-two hours . And yet five hours ago , Lord Hastings was alive , untouched , free , at liberty . What a backward world we live in ! Why , who 's so stupid that he ca n't see through this fraud ? But who 's so blind to the consequences of speaking out that he 'll admit what he knows ? The world is a bad place , where you ca n't speak what you know .
In my bedroom window there is a book . Go get it and bring it to me here in the orchard .
But you wo n't eat your words ?
I am the rainbow - bearing messenger sent by my mistress Juno -- the Queen of the Sky . I have come to announce that Juno has asked you , Ceres , goddess of the fields and the earth , to leave your rich farms of wheat , rye , barley , oats , and peas , the hills where the
What does he say ? That I am like an angel ?
She trembled and shook because he stamped and swore and carried on as though the vicar were trying to put something over on him . Finally , the ceremony done , he called for wine . " A health ! " he shouted , like some sailor aboard ship , carousing with his mates after a storm . Then he chugs the wine and throws the dregs in the sexton 's face . Why ? Because the fellow 's beard looked thin , he said , and it seemed to be asking him for the dregs while he was drinking . Next he slung his arm around the bride 's neck and kissed her with such a smack that when they parted the sound of their lips made the whole church echo . That was the limit for me . I got out of there as fast as I could . I know the rest of the crowd is n't far behind me . It 's disgraceful ! You never saw such a mockery of a marriage in your life !
Then I have offended no one . I 've done no more to Caesar than you will do to me . The reasons for his death are recorded in the Capitol . His glory has not been diminished where he earned it , nor have those offenses for which he was killed been exaggerated .
Yes , he was born at Monmouth , Captain Gower . What is the name of the town where Alexander the Pig was born ?
Nah , I 'll never be aware of my own wit , until I break my shins on it .
Dammit , you fat belly . If you call me a coward , I swear , I 'll stab you .
How are my son and my brother ? You 're trembling , and the paleness of your face is more likely to convey your news than your tongue . This is like that old story about the burning of Troy . A man like you -- faint , lifeless , dull , deadly - looking , sad -- woke King Priam in the dead of night to tell him that half the city of Troy had been burned down . But Priam saw the fire before this man could speak , and I can see my Percy 's death before you report it . You 're going to tell me , " Your son did such - and - such; your brother did this ; the noble Douglas fought like so . " You 'll stuff my greedy ears with stories of their bold deeds . But in the end , you 'll stop my ears forever with a sigh that blows away all your words of praise . You will end your story by saying , " Your brother , your son , everyone - dead . "
I do n't blame him . Did n't the late King Richard II proclaim that Mortimer should be next in line for the throne ?
By this leek , I swear I 'll make you pay for this . Okay , okay , I 'm eating it --
Let me have your attention for a moment . I 'm Sir Rowland 's middle son , and I bring you news . When Duke Frederick heard that great , worthy men were coming to this forest every day , he raised a large army to invade this land and fight his brother . But just at the edge of the forest , he met an old religious man . He spoke with him for a while and decided not only to abandon his pursuit of his brother but even to retreat from the world . He 's giving the throne to his banished brother and restoring all the men he 'd exiled to their rightful lands . I swear on my life that I 'm speaking the truth .
Are you drunk ?
Shut up , fool . He 's not your relative .
You might as well tell the pine trees on the mountain to stop waving their treetops when the storms blow through them . You might as well do the impossible rather than try to soften his Jewish heart . It 's the hardest thing imaginable . Therefore I 'm begging you , do n't make any more offers , do n't look for other ways to stop him . Just let me receive my punishment , and let the Jew take his penalty .
I 'll get my revenge before I leave this house .
No , I 'll help too . What 's this part for ?
If you wish to live , you had better get out of here . But I think it would have been better if you 'd let me kill you . One death would have prevented the deaths of many others . --Eros , ho ! --I 'm wearing the shirt of Nessus.Hercules was killed by a shirt poisoned with Nessus ' blood . Wild with pain , he threw his servant Lichas all the way to the sea.I 'm wearing the shirt of Nessus . Hercules , my ancestor , teach me how to feel your rage . I 'll toss Lichas to the moon and use my mighty hands to kill my better self . The witch shall die . She sold me to that young Roman boy and now I 'm ruined . She 'll die for it . --Eros , ho !
That 's what he said . So give me my nightgown , Emilia , and I 'll say goodnight . We should n't displease him .
Depends on the quality . Twenty good ewes could be worth ten pounds .
Just this , Volumnius . The ghost of Caesar has appeared to me at night twice . Once at Sardis and once last night , here in Philippi fields . I know that my hour has come .
You 're confusing me , ladies . I was going to tell you all about a good wrestling match that 's going on , which you 're missing .
There must be something in the air here .
Follow me . You 'll work for me . If I still like you after dinner , I wo n't send you away yet . --Hey , dinnertime ! Dinner ! Where 's my fool?- -Go call my fool and have him come here .
Oh , sun , burn up the orbit in which you move , so that the world may be dark forever ! Oh , Antony , Antony , Antony ! Help , Charmian , help , Iras , help ! Help , friends below ; lift him up here .
Oh , stop , fool .
But Mordake is there , and Vernon , and Harry Percy , and Worcester and a slew of brave warriors and excellent men .
He 's a worthless dog , Hortensio . I told him to knock at your gate and for the life of me could not get him to do it .
You speak so highly of fools ! I hope the god of deception rewards you by making you a wonderful liar .
Get him , he 's a thief !
Yes , him , woman . I said " your husband . " --Do you understand that word ? My friend , your husband , the honest , honest Iago .
What , are you mocking me to my face ? You think I 'm joking ? Here . Take that , and that !
So then , for being too argumentative , God wo n't send you any horns ?
It 's all happening according to plan , just as my soul wanted it to happen . Spirit , you fine spirit , I 'll set you free in two days for doing such a good job here .
Officer , here 's your fee -- arrest him . I would have my own brother arrested if he treated me so terribly .
Wait on me tonight . It 's possible that this will be the end of your service . It 's possible you wo n't see me again , or if you do , it will only be my mangled body . Perhaps tomorrow you 'll be serving another master . I look upon you as a person saying good - bye . My honest friends , I wo n't turn you away , but like a master dependent on your good service , I will stay with you until death separates us . Serve me tonight for two hours --I do n't ask any more -- and may the gods bless you for it .
Yes , by God , that it is .
The duke and senators of Venice greet you .
What is it , my lord ?
By gum , I bet William 's become a real scholar . He 's still at Oxford , right ?
How about a rabbit , or a trip to Moorditch ?
But are they all safe , Ariel ?
I do n't know how to tell you who I am by telling you a name . I hate my name , dear saint , because my name is your enemy . If I had it written down , I would tear up the paper .
We are men , my lord .
Yes , but swear by my sword this time .
Draw your sword , Benvolio . Let 's beat down their weapons . Gentlemen , stop this disgraceful fight . Tybalt , Mercutio , the Prince has banned fighting in the streets of Verona . Stop , Tybalt . Stop , good Mercutio .
Are you spending your valuable time on that ?
He commanded me to wake him up early . I 've almost missed the time he requested .
Oh , I 'm out of breath from this foolish chase . The more I pray , the less I get out of it . Hermia is lucky , wherever she is , because she has beautiful eyes . How did her eyes get so bright ? Not from crying . If that 's the case , tears wash my eyes more than hers . No , no , I 'm as ugly as a bear , since animals that see me run away in terror . So it 's no surprise that Demetrius runs away from me as if I were a monster . What evil and deceitful mirror made me think I could rival Hermia 's starry eyes ? But who 's this here ? Lysander , on the ground ? Is he dead or sleeping ? I do n't see any blood or injuries --Lysander , if you 're alive , wake up .
Right . Give me one good reason and I will .
I have to admit I 've heard something about that , and meant to ask Demetrius about it , but I was too busy with personal matters and it slipped my mind . --Anyway , Demetrius and Egeus , both of you , come with me . I want to say a few things to you in private . --As for you , beautiful Hermia , get ready to do what your father wants , because otherwise the law says that you must die or become a nun , and there 's nothing I can do about that . --Come with me , Hippolyta . How are you , my love?- -Demetrius and Egeus , come with us . I want you to do some things for our wedding , and I also want to discuss something that concerns you both .
Madam , some actors happened to cross our paths on the way here . We told Hamlet about them , and that seemed to do him good .
I would take this as a joke if the old man were n't saying it . Mischief surely ca n't be hiding in such a respectable man .
Well , I 'm not beautiful , so I hope that I can at least be chaste .
Not true , not true . You know I would never approve a war against my own cause . As for my wife , if only you had such a wife . It 's easier to rule a third of the world than a wife like that .
You 're on . Whoever calls me a traitor is a vicious liar . Blow the trumpet . Anyone who dares to step forward and make that accusation -- you or anyone else -- go ahead . I 'll uphold my truth and my honor .
No , no , the bell . It 's time for me to go . It was two o'clock when I left him , and now it 's one .
What ! I 'm not dead ? Not dead?- -Guard , here ! Oh , kill me !
I 'll do my best , sir . I ca n't do any more .
We 'll meet again at nine in the morning . Othello , have one of your officers stay behind to bring you your commission and whatever else is important to you .
You 're a senator !
Hold him in custody until the Prince gets here .
We are fortunate in the change .
All the worse that she stooped this low , then .
We will , my noble lord .
Who offered him the crown ?
Oh , but now you have fallen into a pit of ink , and there 's not enough water in the whole wide sea to wash you clean again , and not enough salt to cover your stink .
Oh , yes , and you 've left them silent too , because you stole their buzzing , Antony . You very wisely warn us before you sting .
Is that possible ?
I 'm sad to say this confirms the stories being told about him in Rome , which I had taken to be lies . Well , I 'll hope things change for the better soon . Have a good night !
Amen to that !
I will , sir .
Please do n't bother arguing with the Jew . You might as well go stand on the beach and ask the ocean to get smaller . You might as well ask a wolf why he killed the lamb and made its mother cry .
A friend ? What friend ? What 's your name , please , friend ?
Good - bye , my dearest sister , good - bye . I hope you have good weather to set your mind at ease . Farewell .
My noble lord --
And I 'll have his clerk as mine . So be careful when you leave me to my own devices .
Come on , sir , let 's go .
For three months .
Your other daughter Regan will treat you kindly , you 'll see . Even though she 's as similar to Goneril as one crabapple is like another , still ... I know what I know .
Yes , it is . But though I was born here and should consider that tradition part of my own heritage , I think it would be better to ignore it than practice it . Other countries criticize us for our loud partying .
I love you more than I could love any ridiculous young man in the world .
I 'm going , I 'm going .
Please do n't make fun of me . I 'm a foolish , senile old man , eighty - something years old , not an hour more or less . To put it plainly , I 'm afraid I 'm not quite sane . I feel I should recognize you and that man ,
But boys , boys ! Four o'clock tomorrow morning some pilgrims are going to pass by Gad 's Hill . They 'll be on their way to Canterbury Cathedral with expensive offerings , and traders will be heading to London with bags of money . I 've got masks for you , you 've got horses for yourselves . Mr. Gadshill is spending tonight in Rochester , and I 've already ordered tomorrow night 's dinner in Eastcheap . We could do this in our sleep . If you come , I 'll make you rich . If not , stay home and hang yourselves .
What endeavor , Popillius ?
If I see you there , Davy --
The grievances borne by my fellow Englishmen , and the cruel murder of Scroop , my own brother : these are the reasons I 've made this fight my own .
Come on , sir . I know you 're very wise , and I wish you would use some of that wisdom to snap out of this mood you 've been in lately and be your true self again .
Know the glove ! I know the glove is a glove .
Alas , sir , no , her feelings come from pure love , not cleverness . Her sighs and tears are like great winds and floods . She has more storms and tempests in her than a weather almanac . Her temper is not a trick or a skill -- if it is , she can make it rain as well as Jove .
of her father . If she has anything bad to say about me , then you can sentence me to death .
Time 's running backward ? I 've never heard of that .
But wait a moment . There 's something else . This contract does n't give you any blood at all . The words expressly specify " a pound of flesh . " So take your penalty of a pound of flesh , but if you shed one drop of Christian blood when you cut it , the state of Venice will confiscate your land and property under Venetian law .
I 'll bet any man who knows the law five shillings to one on it . Truly though , you ca n't stop the Prince without the Prince 's consent , for the watch should n't offend anyone , and it 's an offense to keep a man without his consent .
Tell me again , where did you leave those lowlifes ?
Here is the door , sir . This is Lucentio 's house . My father-in-law lives closer to the marketplace . That 's where I 'm going now , so I 'll leave you here .
I want to ask him one more thing , Charmian . But it 's not important . Bring him to my writing room . Everything may still be all right .
You , fellow , go fetch my page , Bartholomew , and dress him up like a noble lady . When you 've finished , bring him to the drunkard 's room , address him as " madam , " bow to him and treat him with all-round respect and deference , as though he were the lady of the house . Give him this message : if he wants to please me , he will conduct himself like a member of the aristocracy , mimicking the kind of behavior he 's seen noble ladies use toward their husbands .
Just as there 's no ring on your finger , there 's no truth in your heart . I swear I 'll never get into your bed until I see the ring again !
Stand here near me , Master Robert Shallow . I 'll make the King do good things for you : I 'll throw him a look as he passes by . Just watch the face he 'll make at me .
They were joined in an eternal bond of love and matrimony , and it was confirmed by a holy kiss and an exchange of rings . I witnessed it all as priest . It took place just two hours ago .
With all my heart , Phoebe .
You mournful princes and grieving gentlemen who have been sharing this burden of grief , now it 's time to cheer each other up with love . Though we have lost a generous king , we are about to enjoy the benefits of a new king . We must preserve our goodwill toward each other and not break into factions again . I think a few members of the court should fetch the young prince from Wales and bring him to London to be crowned our king .
I knew he was talking about me . A lot of people call me foolish .
Murder ?
A greater gift ? That must mean a sword .
Here is Lucentio , true son to the true Vincentio . I have made your daughter mine by marriage while false impressions blinded your eyes .
Believe me , I 'd rather have lost a purse full of gold coins . This would be enough to make my husband suspect me , if he was n't so free of jealousy .
By God , that 's a real problem , it 's true .
Romeo will thank you , my girl , for both of us .
What 's the news abroad ?
Would I dare do something like that ?
Dear Mr. Fabian , do me another favor first .
I wish all of our friends could have survived this battle .
That they are .
I wish it were bedtime , Hal , and everything were okay .
It 's only four o'clock now . We have two hours to get ready .
It would an insult to Jews everywhere to forgive that man !
If it 's a tune we want , let 's sing " Light on Love ! " It 's a light song and does n't require a man to sing the baritone . You sing , and I 'll dance .
I beg your Grace to pardon me , and now please stop talking to Clarence .
We would have all the nobility of Scotland gathered under one roof , if only Banquo were here . I hope it turns out that he 's late out of rudeness , and not because something bad has happened to him .
I want to speak with Clarence , and I came here on my legs .
And le coud ?
Father , I was up in my room sewing when Hamlet came in with no hat on his head , his shirt unbuttoned , and his stockings dirty , undone , and down around his ankles . He was pale as his undershirt , and his knees were knocking together . He looked so out of sorts , as if he 'd just come back from hell . He came up to me .
Get us out of here .
Do you like pictures ? We 'll be right back with one of Adonis stretched out beside a rushing brook , with Venus spying on him , hidden in rushes that seem to move and undulate with her lustful sighs , like grass waving in the wind .
" Sir , last Wednesday you spit on me . You insulted me on this day , and another time you called me a dog . And out of gratitude for these favors , I 'll be happy to lend you the money ? "
I 'll see her damned first . To the waters of hell , I swear , to the endless deep , with chaos and vile tortures . Hold onto that pole , I say . Down , down , dogs ! Down , fates ! Here 's my sword !
With pleasure . I 'll introduce you to my sister . Follow me .
Bottom ! Oh , how wonderful to see you ! Oh , what a relief !
And you , go call my fool .
I wish I had never seen it !
For a while you could n't tell who would win . The armies were like two exhausted swimmers clinging to each other and struggling in the water , unable to move . The villainous rebel Macdonwald was supported by foot soldiers and horsemen from Ireland and the Hebrides , and Lady Luck was with him , smiling cruelly at his enemies as if she were his whore . But Luck and Macdonwald together were n't strong enough . Brave Macbeth , laughing at Luck , chopped his way through to Macdonwald , who did n't even have time to say good-bye or shake hands before Macbeth split him open from his navel to his jawbone and stuck his head on our castle walls .
Come here , Leonato . What was it that you told me today -- that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick ?
I ca n't speak ; my heart is ready to burst . Well , sweet Jack , take care of yourself .
Do it , and shout like the city 's on fire .
Very well . Follow that gentleman now , and be careful not to make fun of him .
Thanks , Rosencrantz and worthy Guildenstern .
Do you think Alexander the Great looked like this when he was buried ?
Yours , Claudio , yours , I say .
You barely have the heart to tell me , so you ca n't possibly have the nerve to do it . Besides , how have I offended you , my friends ?
Be patient , your highness .
In just an hour from now , Duchess of York , I 'll be saluting you as the mother of two beautiful queens . Come , madam , you must go straight to Westminster Abbey , where you will be crowned Richard 's queen .
Yes , my lord ?
Carry him gently to bed , and every man be ready at his post when he awakes .
Yes , he has .
Come here , you scoundrel .
I 'm now in the same situation as my superiors , who led me here . But if I had been in charge , your victory would have cost you more than it has .
He 's walking in the garden , like this . And he kicks the leaves on the path , exclaiming , " Lepidus , you fool ! " Then he threatens to kill the officer who murdered Pompey.Pompey was killed by one of Antony 's officers , Titius , during his campaign for Antony 's territories . Some historians believe that Titius acted on Antony 's specific order . Then he threatens to kill the officer who murdered Pompey .
I could n't send it . Here it is . I could n't get a messenger to bring it to you either because they were scared of spreading the infection .
Please , be quiet a second , Sir John . No troublemakers are coming in here .
If I could shoot lightning bolts from my eyes , I can tell you who 'd be on the ground .
Come on , boy .
Oh , I wish you were n't , you poor , frightened soul .
Oh , how monstrously evil ! He said he would deny that he wrote his letter ? He cannot truly be my son . --Listen . The duke 's trumpets . I do n't know why he 's come here . I 'll forbid all ships from leaving our harbors . The villain wo n't escape . The duke will agree with me on that . And I 'll send his picture everywhere so that the whole kingdom will know what he looks like . --And as for you , my loyal and true son , I 'll find some way to make you my heir .
I would like to prove to you that I am . But what would you have thought of me if I had kept quiet when I found out about this hot little love ? My dear queen , what would you have thought of me if I had turned a blind eye to what was happening between Hamlet and my daughter ? No , I had to do something . And so I said to my daughter : " Lord Hamlet is a prince , he 's out of your league . You have to end this . " And then I gave her orders to stay away from him , and not to accept any messages or little gifts from him . She did what I said . When she rejected Hamlet , he became sad , and stopped eating , stopped sleeping , got weak , got dizzy , and as a result lost his mind . And that 's why he 's crazy now , and all of us feel sorry for him .
He 's been gone for nine years and he 's leaving again soon .
Please do . Beat him up well , but do n't draw your sword .
Oh , all right , I 've reviewed the list of books . But listen : I want them very handsomely bound -- only books of love , make sure of that in any case . And see that you give her no other lessons . Do I make myself clear ? Over and above what Signior Baptista pays you , I 'll tack on a bonus . Take these notes , too . And make sure they 're pleasantly perfumed . The lady they are meant for is sweeter than perfume itself . What are you planning to read her ?
I 'm going to talk to him like I 'm an insolent boy , so I can play a trick on him . --Can you hear me , forester ?
He sure is , and I 'm the one who 's paying for it .
Yes , Celia , we kept her here for your sake . Otherwise , she would have been banished with her father .
Here 's the money , Dromio . Take it to your master and bring him home immediately . Come , sister , my imagination is too much for me : it both comforts me and depresses me .
I would 've been a sore king then .
In short , I 'm not .
Everybody who serves food does that . What 's wrong with a bite or two of meat during Lent ?
I will , my liege .
Morning , sweet Hal . What 's Mr. Feelbad got to say ? What 's going on , Sir John , Wino Jack ? How 's your deal with the devil coming along ? You sold him your soul last Good Friday for some cold chicken and a glass of cheap wine , right ?
What is this news about ? Does it affect all of us ? Or just one of us ?
Well sir , good night .
This letter confirms the friar 's account . It describes the course of their love and mentions the news of her death . Here he writes that he bought poison from a poor pharmacist . He brought that poison with him to this vault to die and lie with Juliet . Where are these enemies ? Capulet ! Montague ! Do you see what a great evil results from your hate ? Heaven has figured out how to kill your joys with love . Because I looked the other way when your feud flared up , I 've lost several members of my family as well . Everyone is punished .
I 'm fine , my lady . -- Oh , it 's so hard to pretend ! --How are you , Desdemona ?
Boy , go hire twenty skilled cooks .
You 're wrong , sir , I do care about something . But I 'll admit I do n't care for you . If that means I do n't care about anything , you should disappear right now , since you 're nothing .
I 'll never be satisfied with Romeo until I see him . . . dead --dead is how my poor heart feels when I think about my poor cousin . Madam , if you can find a man to deliver the poison , I 'll mix it myself so that Romeo will sleep quietly soon after he drinks it . Oh , how I hate to hear people say his name and not be able to go after him . I want to take the love I had for my cousin and take it out on the body of the man who killed him .
Everyone who lives here is a witch . That means it 's high time for me to go . That woman who claims I am her husband --I loathe her in my soul . But her gorgeous sister , who 's so lovely and gracious , who 's so charming and who speaks so well ,
No thanks , my good mother . There 's a nicer piece of work right here .
Falstaff ! Fast asleep behind the arras , and snoring like a horse .
Who 's there ?
Sirrah , you boy , and you , Bardolph --do n't tell your master that I 'm back in town . This is for your silence .
So long , brother . I believe we 'll prevail .
Who 's that ?
Is your master awake ?
You lie .
Do n't you have anyone more respectable with you , your highness ?
Please , who ?
Go , hurry . You know where I 'll be waiting .
That 's Laertes , a very noble young man . Listen .
You 're going to make me jealous , Launcelot , if you keep taking my wife into dark corners like this !
You 're right . Go polish your steward 's chain , sir . Maria , bring us some wine !
What things , my lord ?
And they respond to you with their hearts as well . The table is full on both sides . I will sit here in the middle . Be free and happy . Soon we will toast around the table .
I see this fellow intends to command the sun .
By the sound of it , he 's a bigger shrew than she is .
Good day , Lieutenant Bardolph .
Can you ask around and find out ?
And women .
It 's after one o'clock .
That 's exactly what I 'll do , my love , and I hope you 'll do the same . Give Banquo your special attention . Talk to him and look at him in a way that will make him feel important . We 're in a dangerous situation , where we have to flatter him and hide our true feelings .
I put my trust in you . You 'll see that I 'm a better father to you than Gloucester .
" Servant monster " ? What a crazy island this is . They say there are only five people on it . We 're three of them . If the other two are as loopy as we are , our country 's in bad shape .
March , Bardolph . Lead the men away .
What 's going on ? What 's the matter ?
I 'll do it , sir .
Another hit . What do you say ?
The darkness will hide me from them . And if you do n't love me , let them find me here . I 'd rather they killed me than have to live without your love .
I must break Cleopatra 's powerful hold over me or else I 'll lose myself in foolish infatuation .
Did he stare at you ?
Yes , sir .
Stop -- if you ca n't be kind , at least have some shame .
You 're taking it more seriously than I meant it .
When did he come to town ?
What a sharp mind this boy has ! To make up for his scorn toward his uncle , he makes fun of himself as well . It 's amazing that he 's so cunning at his age .
where it takes on some other horrible form that drives you insane . Think about it . The edge of the sea makes people feel despair even at the best of times . All they have to do is look into its depths and hear it roar far below .
You evil whore !
To bed , to bed ! There 's a knocking at the gate . Come , come , come , come , give me your hand . What 's done cannot be undone . To bed , to bed , to bed !
No , just to the gates of hell , where the devil will meet me , with the horns on his head like a cuckold , and say , " Go up to heaven , Beatrice . Hell is no place for you virgins . " So I 'll fly up to heaven where I 'll be met by Saint Peter guarding heaven 's gates . He will show me the part of heaven where the bachelors sit , and I 'll have fun there forever .
I know it 's the sun that shines so bright .
My lord ?
I have done the deed . Did you hear a noise ?
I 'll have a drink with you , but I ca n't stay to eat . But I 'm truly glad to see you , Master Shallow .
Nothing . I 've never been taught how to make anything .
We remember how , but what we have to say is so sad that we cannot speak .
Have you lost your mind ? Do you know what you 're doing , talking like that ?
But are you sure that Benedick loves Beatrice that much ?
He 's coming , madam ; but he 's acting very strangely . He must be possessed by the devil .
Who can blame him for acting crazy , when inside he condemns himself for everything he 's done ?
charge of all the luck in the world ! Get your boots on . We 'll ride through the night . Oh sweet Pistol ! Get going , Bardolph !
You 'll either be executed or you 'll never see another man again . So think carefully about what you want , beautiful Hermia . Consider how young you are , and question your feelings . Then decide whether you could stand to be a nun , wearing a priestess 's habit and caged up in a cloister forever , living your entire life without a husband or children , weakly chanting hymns to the cold and virginal goddess of the moon . People who can restrain their passions and stay virgins forever are holy . But although a virgin priestess might be rewarded in heaven , a married woman is happier on Earth . A married woman is like a rose who is picked and made into a beautiful perfume , while a priestess just withers away on the stem .
This is some monster of the island , with four legs , who seems to me to have some kind of ache . How the hell does he know our language ? I 'll help out , if only because he speaks the same language as me . If I can cure him from his fever and tame him , and get him back to Naples , he 'd make a great present for any emperor .
What do you think about the fact that Macduff refuses to come to me when I command him ?
But we 'll obey . Our services are entirely at your command .
Menas , I do n't understand how minor quarrels can be superseded by greater ones . If it were n't for the fact that we oppose all three of them together , they 'd be fighting each other . They certainly have enough provocation . But it 's possible the fear of us may mend their petty differences , though how that will work out , we cannot say . It will be as the gods see fit . In any case , our survival depends on putting together the strongest force possible . Let 's go , Menas .
A sail ! A sail ! A sail !
He smiled and said , " The better for us . "
In every good thing they do .
" I may order the one I love . But silence , like a knife , cuts open my heart With strokes that draw no blood . M. O.A. I. rules my life . "
I pity England , but not myself . I was too foolish . I might have prevented this . Stanley dreamed the boar beheaded him , and I laughed and refused to flee with him . Three times today my horse stumbled and started when he looked in the direction of the Tower , as if he hated to carry me to this slaughterhouse . Oh , now I really need that priest who spoke to me today !
You should be ashamed , generals ! What do you think you 're doing ? Love each other and be friends , like two such men should be . Listen to me , because I 'm older than you , surely .
Why did n't you say " the swift steps " of time instead of the " lazy foot " ? Would n't that have been just as appropriate ?
You look tired .
Pay for something I never got ? Go ahead , you fool . Arrest me if you dare .
Oh , what a wonderful son , I can impress my mother ! But what 's the upshot of her admiration ? Do tell .
You son of a bitch , senseless villain !
Argh ! I feel like my mind is full of scorpions , my dear wife . You know that Banquo and his son Fleance are still alive .
He has . But here he is , back with the mayor .
He speaks bluntly , madam . He 's more of a soldier than a wise man .
Well , nobody speaks better Welsh . I 'm going to lunch .
Then go gather your men , but leave behind your son , George Stanley . Make sure your faith is firm , or he has little chance of keeping his head .
What do you mean , your highness ?
Now your absolute fear and utter cowardliness has made you wrong this good lady in order to make peace with us . Is she wicked ? Is this hostess here wicked ? Is your boy here wicked ? Or honest Bardolph , whose piety burns in his face ? Is he wicked ?
What , an upset stomach from too much booze ?
You ! You did it ?
If my heart 's dear love --
If you do n't dare to fight for ten shillings , there 's no honesty , manhood , or friendship in you , and you never came from royal blood .
Nobody 's coming ? I 'll bleed to death .
Yes , sir , it was tough . We confused the daytime by sleeping through it , and made the night merry with our drinking .
He 's nearby , and Pindarus has come to salute you on behalf of his master .
No , no . I am . Really . Very impressive . Is there any more , or is that it ?
Let 's do that , Lysander . Find something to cushion you while you sleep . I 'm going to rest my head on this little slope .
Oh , but I think of him more highly than I say I do -- and I wish he looked worse in other women 's eyes . I 'm like a lapwing , creating a diversion in order to distract predators from my nest . My heart adores him , even though my tongue curses him .
I 'll fight him over this issue till I do n't have the strength to blink .
What kind of question is that ! If I had a dirty mind , I 'd think you meant turning to men for sex . Here , I 'll tell you my whole plan in my carriage , which is waiting for us at the gate . So hurry up , because we have twenty miles to cover today .
You 're not wise enough , Hastings , not wise enough at all to see into eternity .
He 's a son of a bitch , a moron , a total jerk . --Come sit down , Kate , I know you must be hungry . Will you say grace , sweet Kate , or shall I?- -What is this ? Mutton ?
I do n't care .
Follow them , please .
So he 's dead ?
Who , Hero ?
A beautiful target is the one that gets hit the fastest .
Hmmph !
I 'm glad you 're insane enough to admit it in front of me .
What an idiot this guy is ! --You 're a rotten piece of work ! --I beg your highness , beat him up and take his wine bottle from him . When he loses that , he 'll be drinking salt water , since I 'll never tell him where the freshwater springs are .
It 's dinnertime , my lord . It 's nine o'clock .
The young knight Roland came to the dark tower . He said , " Fee , fie , fo , fum , I smell the blood of an Englishman . "
He was so angry I feel he must really believe what he was saying . I do n't believe it . Yet I wish I could . Oh , please be true , please let it be that this man has mistaken me for you , my dear brother !
Who 's she ?
I do , so I can thank you for what you called me .
The duke , my father , loved his father very much .
Again !
What , you do n't want me to be chaste ?
I went to many places where I heard news about her , but I could n't find her .
The heavens guard and protect you , you royal child of fame !
Am I supposed to say bad things about my own husband ? Ah , my poor husband , who will sing your praises when I , your wife of three hours , have been saying awful things about you ? But why , you villain , did you kill my cousin ? Probably because my cousin the villain would have killed my husband . I 'm not going to cry any tears . I would cry with joy that Romeo is alive , but I should cry tears of grief because Tybalt is dead . My husband , whom Tybalt wanted to kill , is alive . Tybalt , who wanted to kill my husband , is dead . All this is comforting news . Why , then , should I cry ? There is news worse than the news that Tybalt is dead , news that makes me want to die . I would be glad to forget about it , but it weighs on my memory like sins linger in guilty minds . " Tybalt is dead , and Romeo has been banished . "
Oh , my heart is breaking . Oh , my bankrupt heart is breaking . I 'll send my eyes to prison , and they 'll never be free to look at anything again . I 'll give my vile body back to the earth . I 'll never move again . My body and Romeo 's will lie together in one sad coffin .
Well , all of these should be in the lantern , because they 're all in the moon . But be quiet , here comes Thisbe .
But did your sister die of love ?
Well , on behalf of Rosalind , I 'll tell you I do n't want you .
For my part , I really do n't care . I do n't say much , but when the time comes , we 'll smile at each other . But that 's as it may be . I wo n't fight , but I can close my eyes and take a swipe with my sword -- just a simple sword , but so what ? It 's good enough to toast cheese , and it will survive cold as well as another man 's sword . And that 's that .
Oh , most excellent lord , begging your pardon : I 'm a poor Eastcheap widow , and he 's arrested on charges I brought against him .
Give me back the ring I gave you at lunch , or give me the necklace you promised in exchange . Then I 'll be gone , sir , and stop troubling you .
I 'll be damned if I did n't fight with a dozen of them for two straight hours . It 's a miracle I managed to get away . They stabbed through my shirt eight times . Four through my pants . My shield 's got holes through and through . My sword 's as cut up as a hacksaw . Behold the evidence ! It was the best fighting I 've ever done , but even my all was n't enough . A curse on all cowards ! Ask these men . If they do n't tell you the whole truth , they 're liars and devils .
Yes , my lord ?
How did you like the young German , the duke of Saxony 's nephew ?
Yes , they are .
I refuse to accept that .
The Prince of Wales ? Where is he ? I want to see him . He 's not here .
Give a quick example . Come , explain .
And return to us immediately , bringing Messala with you .
The night 's silence makes it sound better .
To get back to the matter at hand , what do you think of our proposal ?
No one can undo this loss of mine , and trying to endure it patiently does n't help .
Why would she write to Edmund ? Could n't you just deliver the message orally ? It probably has something to do with ... I do n't know . I 'll be so grateful to you if you let me open that letter .
Make room ! Tell Antony that Brutus has been taken .
Come on , there 's no reason to worry . My ships will come home a month before the money is due .
But tell me what you 're fighting about .
Well , it 's written in a boisterous and rude style -- someone is up for a fight . Why , she challenges me like a Muslim would challenge a Christian . No , a woman 's gentle brain could never have come up with such crude expressions and even harsher meanings . Do you want to hear what she says ?
Is the Prince 's punishment any less awful than doomsday ?
It 's poor crazy Tom .
He said , " Remember me . " I swore I would .
It 's probably some noble gentleman stopping off in mid - journey , thinking to spend the night here .
no talent for prophecy . I 'll take it as a pleasant insult , and I 'll pay you richly for doing me that wrong .
This is a list of the names of all the men in Athens who are good enough to act in the play we 're going to perform for the duke and duchess on their wedding night .
My lord , could I have a word with you ?
What is it , Octavia ?
Well , by this I can see that you do n't love me as much as I love you . If your father had banished my father , I could have learned to love your father as my own , as long as I still had you . You 'd do the same , if your love for me were as true as mine for you .
May I kiss your feet ?
Do n't be stingy with your words . What 's the news ?
I am almost afraid to stand alone here in the graveyard , but I 'll take the risk .
Ah , Juliet if you 're as happy as I am , and you 're better with words , tell me about the happiness you imagine we 'll have in our marriage .
So , my lord , will the king be attending the performance ?
I had to hurry to my love , beautiful Helena , who lights up the night better than all those fiery stars . Why are you looking for me ? Did n't you figure out that I left you because I hate you ?
Well , sir , my mistress is the sweetest lady . Lord , Lord , when she was a little baby --Oh , there is one nobleman in the city , a guy named Paris , who would be happy to claim her as his own . Juliet would rather look at a toad than at him . I make her angry sometimes by saying that Paris is more handsome than you are . But when I say so , I swear she turns white as a sheet . Do n't " rosemary " and " Romeo " begin with the same letter ?
Goodbye , master ! Goodbye , goodbye .
What a pleasant meeting between two people truly in love ! May heaven bless the feelings growing between them !
The servants Macbeth killed .
Will you two help them get ready ?
Shame on you , Petruchio ! You are too harsh . Come , mistress Kate , I 'll join you .
You horrible mouth of death ! You 've eaten up the dearest creature on Earth . Now I 'm going to force open your rotten jaws and make you eat another body .
No , sir .
So they are possibly Antony 's friends .
What 's that music ? My friends , listen .
Stay hidden and listen .
She would have died later anyway . That news was bound to come someday . Tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow . The days creep slowly along until the end of time . And every day that 's already happened has taken fools that much closer to their deaths . Out , out , brief candle . Life is nothing more than an illusion . It 's like a poor actor who struts and worries for his hour on the stage and then is never heard from again . Life is a story told by an idiot , full of noise and emotional disturbance but devoid of meaning .
Tie up the servant , for he is mad as well .
I 'm very sorry , sir , but I have to go to Padua tonight . I should really leave right away .
That 's no way to pray . Please take your hands off my throat . I may not be rash and quick to anger , but I have something dangerous in me which you should beware of . Take your hands off .
Please go find out for certain who has arrived .
Madam ?
I wish it were the other way around : that my bank account were huge and my waist were thin .
Good Enobarbus , you would be doing a very good thing if you advised your captain to speak calmly and quietly .
And for our part in his death , the whole world is scandalized by us , and speaks ill of us .
Tell us , Bottom .
Yes , my lord , quite well . You 've bet on the weaker fencer .
Then west is where I 'm headed ! I wish you all the best . You do
Come with me . I 'll fall at his feet and lie there until my pleading and crying convinces the duke to come here and force my husband to leave this abbey .
Where is this man ?
I gave you everything --
You know that I used to believe in Epicurus and his disregard for omens . I 've changed my mind now and partly believe in omens . Traveling from Sardis , two mighty eagles fell on our front flag and perched there , eating from the hands of the soldiers who 'd accompanied us to Philippi . This morning , they 've flown away and in their place are ravens , crows , and kites , flying over our heads and looking down on us , as though we were sickly prey . Their shadows are like a deadly canopy , under which our army lies , ready to die .
Follow her . Keep an eye on her , please .
Now , I swear by Apollo ...
John Duke of Norfolk , Walter Lord Ferrers , Sir Robert Brakenbury , and Sir William Brandon .
You 're lying . We ca n't horse around , because you do n't have a horse .
Ask him in here .
Fess up , fess up , did n't that one strike home ?
Poison never landed on such an ugly toad . Get out of my sight ! You 're poisoning my eyes .
That 's old news . Who 's winning ?
Oh , Lord !
Sixteen at least , my lord .
Oh , her grief has poisoned her mind . Her father died and now look at her ! Oh , Gertrude , Gertrude , when bad things happen , they do n't come one at a time , like enemy spies , but all at once like an army . First her father was killed , then your son was taken away -- because of his own violent actions . The people are confused and spreading nasty rumors about Polonius 's death , and I was a fool to bury him in a hurry , without a proper state funeral . Poor Ophelia has been robbed of her sanity , without which we 're just pictures , or animals . Last but not least , her brother has secretly returned from France and is surrounded by gossip - mongers , who fill his ears with wicked stories about his father 's death . Deprived of proper evidence , he 'll naturally attribute the murder to me . Oh , dear Gertrude , I feel as though I 'm being murdered many times over .
It should work . But I still believe that his madness was caused by unrequited love . --Hello , Ophelia . You do n't have to tell us what Lord Hamlet said .
I do n't know her , but I know her father and he knew mine well . I wo n't sleep until I see her , Hortensio . So I hope you 'll forgive my cutting short this first conversation of ours -- unless you want to come with me .
She says that your behavior has astonished her .
He 's a stylish man . And how he loves Caesar !
Some devils ask for nothing more than nail clippings , a hair , a drop of blood , a pin , a nut , or a cherry pit . But this one 's greedy : she wants a necklace . Be wise , master . If you give it to her , she 'll shake the chain and frighten us , like the angel in the Bible .
How do you know all this ? Did you see the battlefield ? Did you come from Shrewsbury ?
Stop it , you little parrot . Answer me straight . I swear , Harry , I 'll break your little finger if you do n't tell me everything , and the truth , too .
I 'm dying for food , so let me have some .
He certainly is . I 'm very sorry I was so hard on him . Why , from what he says , Octavia is n't worth getting upset over .
Is your other mouth calling my name ? Mercy , mercy ! This is n't a monster , it 's a devil . I 'll leave him alone . I have no interest in getting mixed up with the devil .
No , if you struggle with me --
Taste your legs , sir . Please go inside .
Listen ! Listen !
Take it easy ! Please ! It was just an accident !
As far as I know , sir .
Go ! And get out of my sight ! Stay in your grave . There 's no marrow in your bones , and your blood is cold . You 're staring at me with eyes that have no power to see .
By the Lord who raised me to this weighty post from the happy and carefree life I used to enjoy , I promise you I never did anything to get the king to turn against the duke of Clarence . In fact , I 've always been on his side and have pleaded for him . My lord , you 're doing me a huge injustice to suggest otherwise .
We 'll fight him tonight .
Yes , you 've been a ladies ' man in your time . But I 'll make sure you do n't stay up any later now .
For goodness sake , I sent money to bail you out . I gave it to Dromio , who rushed in for it .
You will be whipped .
Then I wish he were here alone . He 'd be sure to be ransomed , and many a poor man 's life saved .
The news I have to tell your majesty is that Buckingham 's army has dispersed from sudden floods and heavy rainfall . Buckingham himself has wandered away alone to who knows where .
Polite sir , let me say one thing . Sir , you and I must part company -- no , that 's not it . Sir , you and I were lovers -- no , that 's not it , either . You already know all that . There 's something I 'd like to -- oh , I 've forgotten what I wanted to say . Just as Antony has forgotten me .
You say you 're a better soldier . Show it ! Make your boasts come true , and I 'll be thrilled . I 'm always happy to hear about brave men .
Come , let 's be on our way . My love , let me kiss your lips . Look after my goods and possessions . Keep on your toes : the rule is " cash down , no credit . " Trust no one . For oaths are as easily broken as straws , and men 's faith crumbles like crackers , and you can only rely on what you can hold onto . Let caution be your guide . Go dry your eyes . Brothers in arms , we 're off to France - -like leeches , my boys : to suck , to suck , their very blood to suck !
Go ahead .
She 's getting her period , And she wo n't tell you Why she wo n't come see you .
My lord --
Niece , you are exceptionally perceptive .
Where are your leather apron and your ruler ? What are you doing , wearing your best clothes ? And you , sir , what 's your trade ?
Can you name the steps of that argument again ?
Lucius , are you there ? I ca n't tell by the position of the stars how near it is to daybreak --Lucius , are you there ? I wish I had that weakness , to sleep too soundly . Come on , Lucius ! Wake up , I say ! Lucius !
Why are your swords out ? Why do you look like that ?
I beg your pardon ; walking will make me feel better .
Ooh , you 're sharp .
Yes , he did . He said they were devils incarnate .
You must leave these places and hurry here to this grassy spot , to entertain Juno .
No , no , I ca n't , really . He 'd kill me .
Come on . When was the last time you saw my father ?
What , would you let a snake bite you twice ?
It 's possible , ma'am . Do n't give up yet . When our ship was wrecked and you and a few other survivors were clinging onto our lifeboat , I saw your brother tie himself to a big mast floating in the sea . He was acting resourcefully and courageously in a dangerous situation . For as long as I could see him , he stayed afloat on the waves like Arion on the dolphin 's back .
Gloucester , I 'll thank you forever for the love you 've shown the king . I 'll get revenge for what they did to your eyes . --Come here , my friend . What else you do know ?
Evil thoughts , ready hands , the right poison , and the time is right too . The dark night is on my side , for no one can see me . You deadly mixture of weeds and plants , which Hecate , goddess of witchcraft , has put a spell on , use your magic to steal this healthy person 's life away .
It 's proper that we speak first , which is why we sent our proposals ahead of us for your consideration . If you 've had time to think over these points , let us know whether they will relieve your frustration . If yes , then a lot of brave young men can return to Sicily who would otherwise die here .
Master , is this Satan 's mistress ?
She will not .
Your case is most unusual , though the Venetian law ca n't stop you from proceeding . -- He has a claim on you , correct ?
Get it , sister .
The king 's a dear boy with a heart of gold , he 's a lively lad , a wag , born of fine parents , good with his fists . I kiss his dirty shoe , and from the bottom of my heart I love the lovely boy . What is your name ?
You can relax , ma'am . His insane period is over . But it 's dangerous to make him try to make sense of the time he lost . Ask him to go in . Do n't trouble him further until his mind is more settled .
That 's true , and with good reason . This letter is for you from Signor Antonio .
On the battlefield , he puts himself in front of the cannon 's mouth , risking his life to seek fame that is as fleeting as a soap bubble . In the fifth act , he is a judge , with a nice fat belly from all the bribes he 's taken . His eyes are stern , and he 's given his beard a respectable cut . He 's full of wise sayings and up-to-the-minute anecdotes : that 's the way he plays his part . In the sixth act , the curtain rises on a skinny old man in slippers , glasses on his nose and a money bag at his side . The stockings he wore in his youth hang loosely on his shriveled legs now , and his bellowing voice has shrunk back down to a childish squeak . In the last scene of our play -- the end of this strange , eventful history -- our hero , full of forgetfulness , enters his second childhood : without teeth , without eyes , without taste , without everything .
You are too blunt . You 're supposed to work up to it .
Is it possible ?
Yes , it 's true , sir .
Do n't worry , I 'll be there .
All is lost ! This treacherous Egyptian has betrayed me . My fleet has surrendered to the enemy . You can see them over there throwing their hats up in the air and drinking together like long lost friends . Three-time traitor and whore ! It 's you who have sold me to this youth , Caesar . Now my war is only with you . Tell the army to flee . Revenge on Cleopatra will be my last act . Order them to escape . Go !
I 'll be there early .
Your face is mine , and you have slandered it .
Madam , you 've left me speechless , but my feelings are responding to your words . I 'm as confused as a crowd of people going wild after hearing their prince give a speech . But the day I take this ring off will be the day I die . If you see me without it , you can be confident I 'm dead .
Are you dreaming or awake ?
I think I hear them . --Stop ! Who 's there ?
His kiss is as holy as bread blessed by a priest .
Moron , here we are at the gate . Now put your fists to work , or I 'll put mine to work on your head !
Signor Lodovico ?
That 's out of tune , sir . You lie . You 're nothing more than a servant here . Do you think that just because you 're a goody two shoes , no one else can enjoy himself ?
Do n't worry about me . I 'm as focused as a cat looking for cream to steal .
No one 's heard from him . I 'm sure he 's been kidnapped .
Do n't let us talk you into anything , but consider carefully the value of our offers .
Caesar , I have news about Menecrates and Menas , notorious pirates who prowl the sea in a variety of ships . They 've made many raids upon Italy -- and the naval patrols go pale at even the thought of resisting them . The young , energetic men are joining Pompey . These pirates can capture a ship as soon as it leaves the harbor , since the simple mention of the name " Pompey " carries as much power as a fleet of troops in battle .
You 're getting all worked up over a misunderstanding . I did n't kill Lysander . ? As far as I know , he 's not even dead .
My dear lord , if it was you who conquered her and took her virginity --
Well , sir , and you , witty lady , who gave me quite a turn with your strange talk , my name is Vincentio , my hometown Pisa , and I am traveling to Padua to visit a son of mine whom I have n't seen in a long while .
Who are these country bumpkins swaggering around so close to where the fairy queen is sleeping ? What ? Are they about to put on a play ? I 'll watch . And I 'll act in it , too , if I feel like it .
I hope to make the sender blush for it . Now , lords , do n't let slip any opportunity that might be advantageous for our expedition . My thoughts are now bent entirely on France - -except my thoughts about God , who takes precedence over this undertaking . Therefore , let 's set about mustering the requisite number of troops and give consideration to anything that can be expected to speed our enterprise . For , with God on our side , we 'll chastise this prince on his father 's own doorstep . Therefore , let every man give some thought to how this noble expedition may be undertaken .
Very serious , and I 'm sure it 's because of Beatrice .
There ! Now you 've unwished five thousand men , which I prefer to your wishing for one more . --You know your places . God be with you all .
It 's dark , like my shoe . But it 's not as clean . You 'd be up to your ankles in how filthy it is .
Here 's a sick man who wants to speak with you .
Your love 's name is Rosalind ?
He has n't arrived yet . As far as I know , he 's okay and will arrive here soon .
I think it is . But we have no great reason to long for day .
Here 's my glove ; give me one of yours .
Enough ! Would you try to lift Mount Olympus ?
Oh , I wish the whole battle were between us , and that the only people who would lose their breath today would be me and Harry Monmouth ! Tell me , tell me , what was the tone of his challenge ? Did he show contempt for me ?
Pull out your swords , if you 're men . Gregory , remember how to slash .
You 're right . I am not what I am .
Prepare yourselves .
Stand away from the hearse . Stand away from the body .
I am dying ! --My lord , you still have one eye left to see Cornwall punished . Oh !
If you 'd like --
Cleopatra , understand that , rather than emphasize our power over you , we will soften if you accept our intentions , which are very compassionate toward you . Your acceptance will benefit you , but if you try to make me look cruel by committing suicide as Antony did , I wo n't be so generous . Your children will be destroyed , a fate your submission will save them from . I 'll leave you now .
If you do that , I 'll never respect you again . Why , you silly man !
The hour has almost come when I have to return to the horrible flames of purgatory .
Then I suppose do n't have a prince 's appetite , because right now all I can think about is small beer . But it 's true : all these everyday considerations distance me from my own nobility . It 's disgraceful that I should be familiar with a man like you ! To know your name , your face , and your wardrobe so intimately that I know that you have two pairs of stockings : the ones you 're wearing now , and those peach-colored ones . I even know how many shirts you have : one to wear , and one extra . But then , the keeper of the tennis courts knows your wardrobe better than I do , for when you 've run out of clean shirts , you do n't show up to play . And you have n't played in a while , because the whore houses have eaten all the rest of your money , which you 'd otherwise use to buy more shirts . God only knows whether all the crying brats you 've fathered will make it to heaven . But then , the midwives say that babies do n't bear the sins of the parents . That 's how the population increases , and families are strengthened .
While we 're walking , you can tell me how I ended up sleeping on the ground with these humans last night .
I 'm not sorry , either . I want you to live , since to me , death is happiness .
I 'm not sure how it happened -- but somehow , something made my love for Hermia melt away like snow . My past love for Hermia now seems like a memory of some cheap toy I used to love as a child . Now the only person I love , and believe in , and want to look at , is Helena . I was engaged to her before I ever met Hermia . Then I hated her for a time , as a sick person hates the food he usually loves . But now I have my natural taste back , like a sick person when he recovers . Now I want Helena , I love her , I long for her , and I will always be true to her .
Another studpid answer ! What do you say , James Soundpost ?
Duke of Burgundy , if you want peace , the lack of which creates these misfortunes you describe , you must purchase it buy agreeing across-the-board to all our very just demands . You hold the details and particulars of our terms , briefly enumerated , before you in your hands .
Yes , tonight . No more talking about this now .
I held the sword and he ran on it .
What did you say to me ?
That fair - skinned , hard-hearted hussy , Rosaline is going to torment him until he goes insane .
There was no harm , I 'm telling you . Everything I 've done has been for you , my dear daughter . You do n't know what you are , since you do n't know who I am or where I come from , or that I 'm better than merely Prospero , your humble father who lives in a poor little shack .
Do you see where Benedick is hiding ?
They swore that you were sick with love for me .
hundred times . But she loves it so much that she always keeps it near her to kiss it and talk to it . I 'll copy the embroidery pattern and then give it to Iago . Heaven knows what he 's going to do with it . I only try to satisfy his whims .
Sweet Phoebe , do not scorn me . Do not , Phoebe . Go ahead and say you do n't love me , but not so bitterly . The executioner , who 's seen death so much his heart has grown hard , still says , " forgive me " before he drops the axe on the criminal 's neck . Are you going to be crueler than the man who makes his living by killing ?
Thank you , darling . I 'd like to introduce you to my friend . This is Antonio , my dearest friend . We are closely tied .
Is he there in person ?
Oh , who did this thing ?
Oh Lord , my spirits are tired !
I say it 's the moon .
Take care , your highness !
Rest easy in the meantime .
Thanks , Guildenstern and worthy Rosencrantz . I beg you to pay a visit right away to my son , who 's changed too much . Servants , take these gentlemen to see Hamlet .
I know he does n't . I 'm preparing myself to deal with whatever happens , which ca n't be any worse than what I 've imagined .
Yes , the second time around , since , as they say , old people become children again .
Good - bye , great commander . Should I do it now ?
Go , man , return to your lord and tell him not to worry about the separate meetings . While he and I are at one , my loyal servant Catesby will be at the other , so nothing will happen that we wo n't find out about . Tell your master there is no sound basis for his worries . And as for his dreams , I 'm surprised he 's so foolish as to trust the fantasies of a restless night . If we flee from the boar before the boar even pursues us , we 'll only make the boar angry and suspicious , causing him to chase us when he never intended to . Tell your master to get up and come here , and we 'll go together to the Tower to meet the boar , who will treat us well , as he 'll see .
Nothing , sir , except grandchildren .
The same to you , my lord ! Welcome to the open air again . How did you tolerate prison ?
His most horrible murder . Murder 's always horrible , but this one was especially horrible , weird , and unnatural .
He did ask for mercy .
Is n't it better this way ? But where is Kate ? Where is my lovely bride ? How is my father - in - law ? Gentlemen , you seem displeased . What 's everyone staring at ? You look as if you 'd seen something unusual -- a comet or something .
I 'm glad you 're eager . You 'd have to be as lazy as a weed on the shores of Lethe not to get riled up here . Now listen , Hamlet . Everyone was told that a poisonous snake bit me when I was sleeping in the orchard . But in fact , that 's a lie that 's fooled everyone in Denmark . You should know , my noble son , the real snake that stung your father is now wearing his crown .
Where is the king ?
Oh , fine . All right , go ahead , keep up your little game , pretend to be sympathetic , but then nudge each other and wink and make faces at me when I turn my back . Keep up your wonderful game . You 're doing such a good job on this trick , someone should write a book about it .
Cowards die many times before their deaths . The brave experience death only once . Of all the strange things I 've ever heard , it seems most strange to me that men fear death , given that death , which ca n't be avoided , will come whenever it wants .
down , and then say also that in Aleppo I once saw a Turk beating a Venetian , so I grabbed the Turk by the throat and hit him like this .
Well , there you go . She was so young , but she deceived her father so thoroughly he thought it was witchcraft ! But I 'm sorry I 've blurted all this out . I beg your pardon for loving you too much .
I can tell that something wicked is coming by the tingling in my thumbs . Doors , open up for whoever is knocking !
But how did you want it made ?
I swear , I wish you would , Master Shallow .
I think I can guess what you 're about to say .
How dare you tell us about God 's laws when you have broken them so savagely yourself ?
May I be excused , sir ?
All right , my lord . --How 's the king doing ?
The same people who say he gets drunk with you every night .
The will , the will ! We want to hear Caesar 's will .
That 's what we 're trying to say , sir .
Alexas deserted . He went to Judea as if on Antony 's business , but he persuaded Herod to support Caesar instead . Caesar hanged him for this service . Canidius and the others that left Antony are given hospitality here but no positions of trust . I 've done a bad thing , for which I will blame myself so much that I 'll never be happy again .
He 's my prisoner . If I let him go , I 'll have to pay his bail fees myself .
Thank you , sir . You do the same .
There 's no doubt that Petruchio 's got quite a catch . Now , Baptista , let 's turn to your younger daughter . We 've been waiting a long time for this day . I 'm your neighbor and came courting first .
Death is my son - in - law . Death is my heir . My daughter married death . I will die and leave Death everything . Life , wealth , everything belongs to Death .
Please , give me that goblet , if you love me . Let go of it ! I 'll get it from you , I swear . Oh God , Horatio , what a damaged reputation I 'm leaving behind me , as no one knows the truth . If you ever loved me , then please postpone the sweet relief of death awhile , and stay in this harsh world long enough to tell my story .
That 's just what I thought . How many , can you guess ?
I believe drink did all of this to you last night .
And he had a chain that once belonged to you hanging around his neck . Are you blushing ?
You know what they say . Destiny chooses when you 'll die and who you 'll marry .
I 'm a man , my lady , that God has made for himself to ruin .
Cambio .
Yes , my lord .
They are , my lord .
Yes , but he 'd deny it all .
What you say is true . That 's me you 're talking about , the playful wanderer of the night . I tell jokes to Oberon and make him smile . I 'll trick a fat , well-fed horse into thinking that I 'm a young female horse . Sometimes I hide at the bottom of an old woman 's drink disguised as an apple . When she takes a sip , I bob up against her lips and make her spill the drink all over her withered old neck . Sometimes a wise old woman with a sad story to tell tries to sit down on me , thinking I 'm a three-legged stool . But I slip from underneath her and she falls down , crying , " Ow , my butt ! " and starts coughing , and then everyone laughs and has fun . But step aside , fairy ! Here comes Oberon .
Is it really true ? Then I rebel against you , stars ! You know where I live . Get me some ink and paper , and hire some horses to ride . I will leave here for Verona tonight .
Sir , let 's get to the point .
And wo n't he come again ? And wo n't he come again ? No , no , he 's dead . Go to your deathbed . He 'll never come again . His beard was white as snow , His hair was all white too . He 's gone , he 's gone , And we moan as we 're cast away . God have mercy on his soul . And on the souls of all good Christians , I hope . Goodbye , God be with you .
Even if you were made of feathers and air , you should 've been smashed in pieces like an egg after falling as far as you just did . But your flesh is solid , your mind is strong , you 're breathing and talking , you 're not bleeding . You just fell the height of ten ship masts , straight down . It 's a miracle you 're alive . Say something again .
Lead , boy . Which way ?
Then we 'll call this the Battle of Agincourt , fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus .
You , my earthly moon , are now eclipsed , and that alone foretells my ruin .
All right .
Why do you keep repeating that , woman ? I 'm telling you , your husband .
If I wake up too early , wo n't I go insane with all these horrible , frightening things around me , start playing with my ancestors ' bones , and pull Tybalt 's corpse out of his death shroud ? Will I grab one of my dead ancestor 's bones and bash in my own skull ? Oh , look ! I think I see my cousin Tybalt 's ghost . He 's looking for Romeo because Romeo killed him with his sword . Wait , Tybalt , wait ! Romeo , Romeo , Romeo ! Here 's a drink . I drink to you .
Give me the gown . Where 's your lute ?
Brutus , my master ordered me to kneel like this . He ordered me to kneel low , and , from the ground , like this , he ordered me to say : " Brutus is noble , wise , brave , and honest . Caesar was mighty , bold , royal , and loving . Antony loves Brutus and honors him . Antony feared Caesar , honored him , and loved him .
That 's enough for me , then . I 'll challenge him . I 'll kiss your hand , and with that I leave you . I swear that Claudio will pay dearly for this . Keep me in your thoughts and go comfort your cousin . I 'll go tell them that she 's dead . Goodbye .
I 'm sorry , madam . I wounded your relative . But I would 've been forced to do the same thing to my brother , since my safety was at stake . You 're looking at me strangely , so I guess you 're offended . But please forgive me , darling , for the sake of the vows we made to each other so recently .
Here , stand behind this wall ; he 'll come right away . Keep your sword out , and then stick it in as far as it 'll go . Quick , quick . Do n't be afraid . I 'll be right next to you . This will either make us or break us . Keep that in mind , and be steady .
Oh , it 's too bad ! It would n't be right for me to tell you everything I 've seen and heard . You 'll see what he 's like . His own actions will show you what kind of person he is , so I wo n't have to bother telling you . Just go after him and watch what he does next .
Now let me see if I can translate it . Hic ibat Simois , I do n't know you , hic est Sigeia tellus , I do n't trust you , Hic steterat Priami , do n't let him hear you , regia , do n't take anything for granted , celsa senis , do n't give up .
Ah , give us some privacy .
You 're wasting your time trying to wound me . You might as well try to stab the air with your sword . Go fight someone who can be harmed . I lead a charmed life , which ca n't be ended by anyone born from a woman .
Mistress , how are you ?
I 'll do that , because I have to tell my brother how you forgave him , Rosalind .
Quiet ! What 's that sound ?
Another king ! The more of them we kill , the more of them spring up . I am Douglas , and I bring death to everyone wearing that uniform . Who are you , disguised as a king ?
You ca n't have anything but the penalty , to be taken at your peril , Jew .
Here 's the head of that notorious traitor , the dangerous and unsuspected Hastings .
I could n't hate that jerk over there any more than I do .
You do n't know why we came to visit you --
I think you 're crazy !
Now Hal , what 's the news at court ? What ever happened about our robbery ?
Come on , you 're being too hard on yourself . I wish none of this had happened , given the situation here , and your rank . But since this has happened , you should fix it for your own good .
I 'm not happy unless I can be working for you . I will go ahead and bring my wife the good news that you are coming . With that , I 'll be off .
Even if the devil himself comes screaming for them , I wo n't send those prisoners . I 'm going to go after him and tell him so ; it will ease my heart , though it might cost me my head .
Father , wife , friends -- farewell ! I 'm off to Venice . Sunday is just around the corner . We will have rings and things and fancy dress ! So kiss me , Kate . We 're to be married on Sunday .
Mistress Tearsheet !
No , Cassius . The eye ca n't see itself , except by reflection in other surfaces .
When I fell in love with Othello I made up my mind that I wanted to live with him . You can see how much I wanted to be with him by how violently I threw away my old life . I feel like I 'm a part of him now , and that means I 'm part of a soldier . I saw Othello 's true face when I saw his mind . I gave my whole life to him because of his honor and bravery . If I were left at home uselessly while he went off to war , then I 'm separated from my husband in his natural element . I 'd be miserable without him . Let me go with him .
That will be suffigance .
I 'm biting my thumb .
What kind of help do you need ?
Merciful heaven ! Come on , man , do n't keep your grief hidden . Put your sorrow into words . The grief you keep inside you will whisper in your heart until it breaks .
Yes , indeed , bring them before me .
Go on , proceed --I 'll give her away .
And hello to you , fair sister .
Have you completely forgotten ? Has it been so long ? Call the priest .
If so , then you never know where love will come from . Cupid gets some lovers with arrows , but some he lays traps for !
What do you mean , my lord ?
Is that called for in the contract ?
Only in that I know that the sicker one gets , the worse one feels , and that the man who lacks money , employment , and happiness is without three good friends . I know that rain makes things wet and fire burns things . I know that a good pasture makes sheep fat , that the main cause of night is the absence of sun , and that the man who is n't smart by nature and has n't learned anything from his schooling will complain of his lack of good manners , or he comes from very dull parents indeed .
A bloody deed , and desperately executed . I wish I could wash my hands of this terrible murder , like Pilate .
I hope your endeavor goes well today .
for you . Argue with a relative like a nobleman , and be rude to servants . Talk about politics and affairs of state , and act free and independent . The woman who advises you to do this loves you . Remember the woman who complimented you on your yellow stockings , and said she always wanted to see you with crisscrossing laces going up your legs -- remember her . Go ahead . A happy new life is there if you want it . If you do n't want it , just keep acting like a lowly servant who 's not brave enough to grab the happiness there before him . Goodbye . Signed , she who would be your servant , The Fortunate Unhappy . "
Well , so - so .
Beware of jealousy , my lord ! It 's a green-eyed monster that makes fun of the victims it devours . The man who knows his wife is cheating on him is happy , because at least he is n't friends with the man she 's sleeping with . But think of the unhappiness of a man who worships his wife , yet doubts her faithfulness . He suspects her , but still loves her .
I hope sores cover your tongue for a wish like that ! He was not born to be shameful . Shame does not belong with Romeo . He deserves only honor , complete honor . Oh , I was such a beast to be angry at him .
My lord , will you come with me ? Dinner is ready .
You 're lucky , since knowing him is most unpleasant . He owns a lot of good land . Give an animal a lot of money , and he 'll be welcome at the king 's table . He 's a jerk , but he owns a whole lot of dirt , so he 's treated well .
Why , he is dead . My suspicion is so quick to speak ! When a man fears something , and does n't want to know the truth , he can still tell when that thing has happened ; by instinct , he can read it in another man 's eyes . But speak , Morton . Tell me , who am an earl , that I have
Well she was , good Curtis , before this frost . But you know how winter tames man , woman , and beast . And it 's tamed my old master and my new mistress and myself , my good colleague .
This is a bad joke . It 's all silliness .
These guys will be fine , Master Shallow . God bless you , Master Silence - -I wo n't say much to you . Farewell , gentlemen , and thank you . I have to march twelve miles tonight . Bardolph , give the soldiers uniforms .
They 're calling for dates and quinces in the pastry kitchen .
That just proves that what you 're doing here is shameful . A rotten container falls apart at the touch ; likewise , a rotten cause cannot withstand scrutiny and argument .
Good afternoon !
My noble lords and relatives , good morning . I slept in . But I hope I did n't delay any important decisions .
But if she ca n't love you , sir ?
The stupid man -- Hey - hoy , the wind and the rain -- Must take what he can get , Since the rain comes every day .
Well then you 're no better than a child .
Dolabella !
Oh , you 're just going to talk about banishment again .
Look , look , here comes my son , John of Lancaster .
He 's a devil , a born devil , who can never be trained . All my attempts to help him , undertaken with the best intentions , have been wasted . As his body grows uglier with age , his mind rots away as well . I 'll torment them all till they roar with pain .
I 'll run from this woman who claims to be my wife as fast as I 'd run from a bear .
What , are you going to mock me to my face when I told you not to ? There , take that , you scoundrel !
Ha ha , are you good ?
If a man 's brain were in his feet , would n't it be susceptible to frostbite ?
But in that " no hope " there are great hopes for you ! That " no hope " means you 're on the way to glory so brilliant you could n't even imagine it , no matter how ambitious you were . Do you agree that Ferdinand must have drowned ?
Bloodshed will force you to . No matter how deeply you hid the crown , even if you hid it in your own hearts , he 'd dig it up . That 's why he 's coming after you like a fierce storm , with thunder and earthquakes like Jove could stir up . So , if asking you for the crown does n't work , he will force you to give it to him . In the name of God , then , he asks that you deliver up the crown . He says to take pity on the poor souls whom this ravenous war will swallow up . The widows ' tears , the orphans ' cries , the dead men 's blood , the girls mourning for their husbands , the fathers and the men they might have married will all be your fault . This is his claim , his threat , and my message . If the Dauphin is here , I have a message for him , too .
Not really , unless you were ugly . Chastity and beauty together in one woman is like sweetening sugar with honey .
I 'll meet you at your tent .
" Dear Bassanio , my ships have all been wrecked . My creditors are getting mean . My money 's almost run out . I could n't pay my debt to the Jew on the due date . Since I 'll certainly die when he takes his collateral out of my flesh , all debts are cleared between you and me if I can just see you again before I die . In any case , do what you want . If your affection for me does n't convince you to come , do n't let my letter do so . "
I think I might just ride you , if I get the chance to mount you .
Please sing again , sweet human . I love to listen to your voice , and I love to look at your body . I know this is the first time I 've ever seen you , but you 're so wonderful that I ca n't help swearing to you that I love you .
Ha , ha , ha ! May the evil one take me if I meant it like that ! Those tears will bring blessings to you . You interpret my words in a melancholy sense , my hearty friends . I spoke to encourage you , asking that you help me make this night a brilliant one . You should know , my friends , that I have good hopes for tomorrow , and that I will lead you as if I expect victory rather than an honorable death . Let 's go to supper . Come , and let 's drown our worries .
Honestly , she is too ill - tempered .
So , where 's my wife ?
He 'd really be your proxy if he married you .
Pourquoi , my friend ?
So Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are in for it .
However your wit and luck allow .
And what wit could excuse that ?
Okay , but only because you want me to .
" In a way " is the right way to go .
Who are you ? Tell me so I can be sure , though I swear I recognize your voice .
Name them .
Well , if you were never at court , you were never exposed to good manners ; if you never witnessed good manners , your manners must be wicked ; wickedness is a sin , and committing sins leads to damnation . You are in a perilous state , shepherd .
You 're going to lose this bet , my lord .
I 'll write it right now -- the whole thing is pressing on my mind , and on my heart . I 'll be bitter toward him , and curt . Come with me , Silvius .
May the gods destroy you ! Do you maintain the same story ?
Listen ! She 's talking . I 'll write down what she says , so I 'll remember it better .
Promising favors ? By Jove that thunders ! Who are you , slave ?
Yes , that 's the one .
Yes , my lord .
Torture will make you talk .
I 'll ante up , certainly ! And on that note , let 's all pass the time this afternoon drinking rounds to our mistress 's health and following the example of legal adversaries , who fight tooth and nail in court but eat and drink as friends .
Sir , I ca n't .
giving her a place to live and people to keep her company that suit her high rank .
My lord , our children have become so beastly that they hate their own parents .
Do n't snap at me . I 've got something for you .
Your Majesty has false French enough to deceive de wisest lady in France .
Are you kidding ?
What do you mean , lady ?
Hey ! I do n't like that .
But I 'm only kissing the wall 's hole , not your lips at all .
Thank you . How is lieutenant Cassio ?
Now he 'll work himself up to a fury . Rage scares away a man 's fear . In that state , a dove will attack an ostrich . I have always noticed that when my captain 's reason is diminished , his bravery increases . When courage consumes reason , it destroys its only weapon . I 'll look for some way to leave his service .
Lovely Katherine , if you will love me well with your French heart , I 'm happy to hear you confess it in broken English . Do you like me , Kate ?
Well . Now I 've done a good day 's work . You must all keep up this united front . Every day I expect a message from God to bring me away from here . Now my soul can depart for heaven peacefully , since my friends have made peace here on earth . Rivers and Hastings , take each other 's hand . Do n't simply hide your hatred . Swear your love for each other .
We all knew that we were venturing into dangerous waters . We knew the odds were ten to one that we would come out alive , and yet we ventured forward anyway . The potential reward of winning outweighed the fear of our probable loss .
The King is n't facing us with any more than that -- in fact , he does n't even have that many , Lord Bardolph . This is a time of war , and the King 's had to divide his army into three sections . One division is fighting the French ; one 's fighting Glendower . That leaves a third of his army to fight against us . The King is weak and divided into three , and the coffers of his treasury echo with the sounds of hollow poverty and emptiness .
He has , my lord , an hour ago .
Yes , ma'am .
You jerk ! You 've stolen both my job and my name ! True , the job never did me much good , and my name only ever got me in trouble . If you were the Dromio in my shoes today , you would have felt like you traded your head for a target and your name for the name of " Ass . "
No.
We wo n't move our land forces unless we 're attacked . And I doubt that will happen , since most of Antony 's men are with his navy . Let 's take up the best positions we can in the valleys .
Demand .
Ha ! No , no , really , your voice is good enough in a pinch .
" Why have you set aside your divine nature just to battle with a woman 's affections ? " Did you ever hear such ranting ? " When other men have wooed me , they did n't hurt me . " In other words , she thinks I 'm not a man , but an animal .
Hello , sweet lady .
What can I do for you ?
Please , sir , have patience . You look pale and wild as if you 're going to hurt yourself .
Here comes the lady . Oh , a footstep as light as hers will never endure the rocky road of life . Lovers are so light they can walk on a spiderweb floating on a summer breeze , and yet not fall . That 's how flimsy and unreal pleasure is .
My friend , sing us the song you sang last night . --Listen to it carefully , Cesario , it 's a simple old song . Spinners and knitters used to sing it while they sewed , and maidens used to sing it over their weaving . It tells the simple truth about innocent love , as it was in the good old days .
I do n't know . Have you heard the latest news?- -I mean the whispered rumors , since that 's all they are at this point .
Yes , exactly . And the men resemble their English hounds in their loud , showy ferocity , too , leaving their brains behind with their wives . Give them hefty meals of beef and iron and steel , and they will eat like wolves and fight like devils .
So , sir . Are you over your ridiculous mood ? If you like being hit , crack some more jokes . You never heard of the Centaur ? You were n't given any gold ? Your mistress sent for me to come to dinner ? The Phoenix is my house ? Were you mad when you spoke to me so madly ?
But you have all the advantages from the harm done . For my part , I was too eager to do King Edward good . He does n't even seem to notice now . And look how he 's repaid poor Clarence for his loyalty -- penned him up like a pig being fattened for slaughter . God pardon those who are responsible for Clarence 's troubles .
Please , my lord , calm down .
Do you know who I am ?
A nice message . My lady , with your permission , this note authorizes me to give myself to you with a kiss . But I 'm in a daze , like someone who 's just won a contest and thinks that all the applause and cheering is for him , but is n't sure yet . And so , beautiful lady , I 'm standing here just like that , wondering whether all this can be true until you tell me it is .
Good - bye .
I wo n't even get the original three thousand ducats back ?
Banquo and Macbeth , all hail !
Let him sink there so the sea will cover him ! Lily - livered coward , what 's he doing there ?
What 's the matter , lieutenant ?
What -- have you seen something so strange that it is clearly an omen from the gods ?
I do n't need your help in grieving . I have my own sources of misery . In fact , all the world 's springs and oceans flow from my weeping eyes . I could drown the world . My poor husband , my dear Edward !
Thank you for saying that . Show me the caskets and let me try my luck . I swear by my sword , which killed the Shah of Persia and a Persian prince and defeated the Sultan Suleiman three times , that I would face the meanest - looking warriors on earth . I would act braver than the bravest man on earth . I would grab bear cubs from a ferocious mother bear , or tease a hungry lion -- all of this in order to win your love , lady . But this is bad ! If the hero Hercules and his servant Lychas rolled the dice , which would win ? Not the greater hero . Just the one who happened to be luckier that time . And just as Hercules could be beaten by his servant , blind luck could make me lose this test and make someone worse than me win . If that happened , I 'd die of sadness .
Is n't my name Hero ? Who can stain that name with a just accusation ?
But oh , what a deceiver he turned out to be ! You do n't live up to your good looks , Sebastian . You look good but you 're bad on the inside , where it counts , since the only real flaws in nature are in a person 's mind and soul . Only really cruel people can be called deformed . Virtue is beauty , but someone beautiful and wicked is like an empty box decorated by the devil .
I think I 've found one already , thanks to you , my lord . I can fall in love just as quickly as you can , and I loved Nerissa as soon as I laid eyes on her . You fell in love with Portia , and I fell in love with Nerissa , because I 'm not in the habit of delaying any more than you are , my lord . Your fate depended on those boxes , and it turns out that mine did too . I could n't help but chase her . I started making love vows to her till my mouth was dry . Then finally she said she loved me and would marry me if you two got married as well .
Well , I 'm out here with you and your goats , in the same way that the witty poet Ovid was abandoned to the barbaric Goths .
The lovers should 've waited around a little longer -- the wall between them is down now .
The honest men .
Trumpets play . The pantomime show begins . A king and queen enter and embrace lovingly . She kneels before him and resists his passion . He lifts her up and lays his head on her neck . He lies down on a bank of flowers . When she sees him sleeping , she leaves . Another man comes in , takes the crown from the king , pours poison in the sleeping man 's ear , and leaves . The queen returns and finds the king dead . She becomes hysterical . The killer comes back with three others and calms the queen . The body is carried away . The killer woos the queen with gifts . She is cold toward him for a while but then relents and accepts his advances .
One more thing , good gentlemen . Watch over Signior Leonato 's house ; with the wedding being held there tomorrow , there 's a great to-do there tonight . Adieu . Be vigitant , I beg you .
And I do say that it 's made of copper . So will you dare keep your word and beat me ?
If he does n't show up , the play is ruined . It wo n't go on . Will it ?
Calphurnia !
The princes are under some strange misunderstanding .
What was that cry for ?
Was that the prologue or the inscription on some wedding ring ?
It 's your job in life to kill the innocent ? What did I do wrong ? Where 's the evidence against me ? Where 's the jury , the judge , the lawful proceedings , the verdict ? Who pronounced this death sentence before a court of law could even convict me ? For you to threaten to kill me is most unlawful . If you hope to have your sins forgiven by Christ 's dear blood , which He shed for our terrible sins , you must leave and keep your hands off me . You 'll go to Hell for the deed you 're planning to do .
As they pass by , grab Casca by the sleeve , and he 'll tell you if anything important happened today -- in his usual sour way .
You 'll have to leave tonight .
Maybe the bull is , but if I am ever domesticated , you can take that bull 's horns and put them right on my forehead , as my wife is sure to cuckold me soon enough . You might as well hang a big sign with enormous lettering around my neck . But instead of it saying " Horse for hire , " it will say " Take a look at Benedick , the married man . "
Damn it ! What 's this ? It 's a skull with a scroll in its empty eye socket . I 'll read it aloud . " All that glitters is not gold -- You 've often heard that said . Many men have sold their souls Just to view my shiny surface . But gilded tombs contain worms . If you 'd been as wise as you were bold , With an old man 's mature judgment , You would n't have had to read this scroll . So goodbye -- you lost your chance . " Lost my chance indeed ! So goodbye hope , and hello despair . Portia , goodbye to you . My heart 's too sad for long goodbyes . Losers always leave quickly .
And if he advances unopposed , my lord , let us abandon France . Let us leave everything and give our vineyards to the barbarous nation .
Listen to me , for I have something to tell you . Am I required to indulge your rash anger ? Does a madman scare me when he stares at me ?
Good point , Decius . I do n't think it would be wise to let Mark Antony , whom Caesar is so fond of , outlive Caesar . We 'd find that he was a dangerous plotter . And as you know , his connections , if he put them to good use , might be enough to hurt us all . To prevent this , Mark Antony should die along with Caesar .
Why Dover ? Were n't you ordered , on penalty of --
I 'll be right behind you , Master Robert Shallow .
That joke 's worth a crown ! Here you go , boy .
He 's taking her hand . That 's right , go ahead and whisper together . This is all I need to get Cassio . Yes , keep smiling at her , Cassio . Your fine manners around women will be your downfall . Oh , I 'm sure you 're saying something very clever .
Tybalt , I have a reason to love you that lets me put aside the rage I should feel and excuse that insult . I am no villain . So , goodbye . I can tell that you do n't know who I am .
Look , here comes someone who loves me , along with someone who loves her .
My liege , this was my glove . Here is its mate , and the man I gave it to promised to wear it in his cap , and I promised to strike him if he did . I met this man with my glove in his cap , and I have been as good as my word .
That noble man is so full of grief that it spills out of his eyes .
Conrade !
If he did that , he 'd be vulnerable at the rear , and the French and the Welsh would be at his heels . He would never let that happen .
Oh , then I see you 've been with Queen Mab .
Oh , you 're just so funny .
I heard that Count Claudio meant to disgrace Hero in front of the whole wedding party and refuse to marry her .
I 'm going to the jeweler 's house . You go buy a piece of rope --I 'll whip my wife and her cohorts for locking me out of my own house . Wait a minute ! I see the jeweler . Go , be gone with you . Buy a rope and bring it to me .
You 're a smart guy . So we should eat and drink . Maria ! Bring us some wine !
No.
What ? He 's been arrested ? Tell me , who had him arrested ?
You will . You 'll hear all you want to hear .
You 're right , Sir John ; it 's about time I got there , and you , too . But my army 's already there . The King is waiting for us , so we must march all night .
Your bank account is thin , and yet you put it to huge waste .
Neither one is his daughter , to judge from their good manners . But really , the smaller one is his daughter . The other is the daughter of the banished duke . Duke Frederick keeps her for his daughter 's sake ; the love between the two of them is stronger than the bond between sisters . But I will tell you that lately the duke has been displeased with his niece , and for no other reason than that people praise her virtues and pity her for her father 's sake . I swear , one day the duke 's malice toward Rosalind will suddenly erupt . Goodbye , sir . Later , in a better world than this , I 'd love to get to know you .
Good morning , my good lord .
And you 're not suited for any place except hell .
Well , it certainly was n't true for Richard ! As a child , he took such a long time to grow up that , according to his rule , he should have grown up into a gracious adult .
Where 's Antony ?
Are you Mouldy ?
I wish the sun would hurry up and set and night would come immediately . When the night comes and everyone goes to sleep , Romeo will leap into my arms , and no one will know . Beauty makes it possible for lovers to see how to make love in the dark . Or else love is blind , and its best time is the night . I wish night would come , like a widow dressed in black , so I can learn how to submit to my husband and lose my virginity . Let the blood rushing to my cheeks be calmed . In the darkness , let me , a shy virgin , learn the strange act of sex so that it seems innocent , modest , and true . Come , night . Come , Romeo . You 're like a day that comes during the night . You 're whiter than snow on the black wings of a raven . Come , gentle night . Come , loving , dark night . Give me my Romeo . And when I die , turn him into stars and form a constellation in his image . His face will make the heavens so beautiful that the world will fall in love with the night and forget about the garish sun . Oh , I have bought love 's mansion , but I have n't moved in yet.I belong to Romeo now , but he has n't taken possession of me yet . This day is so boring that I feel like a child on the night before a holiday , waiting to put on my fancy new clothes .
No , but I can answer you just like those painted cloths , where I suppose you memorized all your questions .
Please , stick to the point .
Calm down . There 's nothing to get upset about . No harm was done .
This is strange . Something has really upset your father .
The king has heard them , but as yet has made no answer .
Do you hear that , Hal ? Be careful about calling a piece of real gold a counterfeit ; you are genuine , even though it may not seem so .
Good countrymen , let me leave alone . I want you to stay here with Antony to pay respects to Caesar 's corpse and listen to Antony 's speech about Caesar 's glories , which he gives with our permission . I ask that none of you leave , except myself , until Antony has finished .
No , father . He 's here .
Madam , madam --
For what , Romeo ?
That 's what they say , but I think life consists of food and booze .
All right , we 'll have a prologue then . We 'll write it in alternating eight - and six - syllable lines , just like in a ballad .
Pretty Ophelia --
Enough of your magic spells , you hateful , withered hag .
Come on , let 's get to the banquet .
" Remember who liked your yellow stockings -- "
Let 's all sink with the king .
Call him over here , good Monsieur Le Beau .
No , come on , one more time .
No , not too upset . I 'm sure Desdemona would never cheat on me .
Indeed , his mocking spirit has now crawled into a lute , and he can be played like an instrument --
Sir John , you complain so much , you 're sure not to live much longer .
Come , ask me to do anything for you .
Tie him up , I tell you .
No , I assure you . The wall that kept their fathers apart has been taken down . Would you like to see the epilogue or hear a country dance between two of us ?
Calm down --
Not where he 's eating , but where he 's being eaten . A certain conference of worms is chowing down on him . Worms are the emperor of all diets . We fatten up all creatures to feed ourselves , and we fatten ourselves for the worms to eat when we 're dead . A fat king and a skinny beggar are just two dishes at the same meal . That 's all I have to say .
Did n't you hear someone shouting ?
Jesus , let 's kill him ! I forgot about the reward .
I 'll give it back to you .
Go order Agrippa to put the men who deserted Antony 's army at the front . That way Antony will feel like he 's fighting his own men .
I believe your Honor is thinking of a character called Soto .
And untied the rest , and then all the others showed up .
Oh , let 's not talk about that , but when they ask you what it means , just say : Tomorrow is St. Valentine 's Day And early in the morning I 'm a girl below your window Waiting to be your Valentine . Then he got up and put on his clothes And opened the door to his room . He let in the girl , and when she left She was n't a virgin anymore .
Are you hurt , lieutenant ?
As eagerly as I ever came from school .
I want peace , good kids , and a long life . To protect the love I cherish , I wo n't be tempted by any opportunity to forget my honor and give in to lust . I refuse to give up the joys of my wedding day , when I 'll be so eager for my first night of love that I 'll wonder whether evening will ever come .
You 'll beat me ?
Absolutely . Let 's dance to " You Jerk . "
Good night , my lord .
Not Romeo , Prince . He was Mercutio 's friend . His crime did justice 's job by taking Tybalt 's life .
But brother Anthony --
Pish to you , you mangy dog , you pointy-eared Icelandic mutt .
Master , knock hard upon the door .
Ah , there 's the problem .
Here comes the messenger with your niece . Leave them alone until he sets off home , and then follow him .
Good idea . His servant here has figured out that agreeing is a good way to cope with his anger .
Do you think that 's why Hamlet 's crazy ?
Daughters who can make you obey them .
Endless greed and lust in a man 's nature is a kind of tyranny . It has caused the downfall of many kings . But do n't be afraid to take the crown that belongs to you . You can find a way to satisfy your desires in secret , while still appearing virtuous . You can deceive everyone . There are more than enough willing women around . Your lust ca n't possibly be so strong that you 'd use up all the women willing to give themselves to the king once they find out he wants them .
Listen to him . If his clothes could talk , they 'd call him a liar .
No , and neither will you .
He is my dear friend , your Majesty .
what I have done that was so unseemly for my station , myself , or my king 's authority .
When fools cry , you remain stony . I like you guys . Go straight to work . Hurry now , get the job done .
Yes , it faded away when the rooster crowed . Some people say that just before Christmas the rooster crows all night long , so that no ghost dares go wandering , and the night is safe . The planets have no sway over us , fairies ' spells do n't work , and witches ca n't bewitch us . That 's how holy that night is .
His lordship is out walking in the orchard . If you do n't mind , knock at the orchard gate and he 'll answer it himself .
Is he attacking the heartland of Poland or some frontier ?
And if I were king of it , you know what I 'd do ?
You can have it then , your highness .
Listen !
His eyes are sunken , and he seems very pale .
Cassio !
If you want to praise Caesar , just say his name -- that 's all the praise that 's necessary .
You 're not holding a glass . Your hand is dry , sir .
Please come in . I 'll take you to a place where you can speak freely .
Is Othello angry ?
Very soon , because you want it .
Sir , be a man . Every married man has been cheated on . Millions of men sleep with wives who cheat on them , wrongly believing they belong to them alone . Your case is better than that . At least you 're not ignorant . The worst thing of all is to kiss your wife thinking she 's innocent , when in fact she 's a whore . No , I 'd rather know the truth . Then I 'll know exactly what she is , just as I know what I am .
And I hope that he wo n't put me down or I 'm sure to have fools for children.I 've brought Claudio , who you sent me to find .
I hope he is , but mothers get to have their doubts .
If you 're slandering her just to torture me , then it 'll be no use to pray for mercy or say you 're sorry . You might as well go ahead and commit every unspeakable crime you can think of , because there 's nothing you could that would top what you 've already done !
Hey , hey ! Hey ! Yoo-hoo !
You did n't offend us , you offended the king .
Oh , my lord , what do you mean by that ?
Oh , I see , you will only part with lightweight presents . For more important things , you 'll say no .
I would n't either , by daylight . It would be easier to do it in the dark .
Oh well , sir , I was really just like a greyhound that Lucentio let off the leash : I did the running , but the catch was his .
That was no show . Your cheeks are too flushed for me to believe that was a fake faint .
Visiting you , my lord . There 's no other reason .
Look , here she comes .
We will .
Everyone 's there except Metellus Cimber , and he 's gone to look for you at your house . Well , I 'll hurry and put these papers where you told me .
Tell the actors to hurry .
Believe me , I 'm sorry you 're in pain . Sweet , sweet , sweet Nurse , tell me , what did my love Romeo say ?
With all of them at once : they work together to create such an entirely evil person that no good ever manages to enter the mix . But tell me -- which of my good qualities first made you suffer love for me ?
Be calm ! It was not Caesar 's bravery that conquered Antony but Antony 's that has triumphed over himself .
Yes , sir .
There 's no need to be , really , for -- -- " Aeacides " is just another name for Ajax . He gets it from his grandfather .
Ma'am , you would n't treat me like this if I were your father 's dog .
What 's the trouble ?
No , it certainly is not admirable to be so perverse and eccentric . But who would dare tell her ? If I said something , she 'd mock me so mercilessly that I 'd probably disintegrate into air . She 'd laugh me right out of my body and kill me with her wit .
No , you have to call me Rosalind . --Sister , you 're coming ?
You 'll make me angry . No more of this .
Oh , sir --
I 'll do it , but I do n't like it .
Lead us , monster ; we 'll follow . I wish I could see this invisible drummer . He really plays well .
Will you see me off ? Once I 'm on my horse , I 'll swear I love you till the end of time . But listen here , Kate . From now on , I wo n't have you asking me where I 'm going , nor guessing why I 'm doing what I 'm doing . I must go where I must go . This is final : tonight I must leave you , sweet Kate . I know you are wise , but your wisdom does n't go further than your role as my wife . You may be able to keep a secret , but you 're still a woman ; and yet no woman can keep secrets like you , because you cannot reveal what you do n't actually know . And that is as far as I will trust you , sweet Kate .
Try to think of it like that , anyway . When a youth grows into a man , he does n't just get bigger in his body -- his responsibilities grow too . He may love you now , and may have only the best intentions , but you have to be on your guard . Remember that he belongs to the royal family , and his intentions do n't matter that much -- he 's a slave to his family obligations . He ca n't simply make personal choices for himself the way common people can , since the whole country depends on what he does . His choice has to agree with what the nation wants .
Her father loves you , Demetrius . So why do n't you marry him and let me have Hermia ?
Your wit is too courtly for me . I 'll rest now .
My lord ?
Quiet ! " I will copy the Romans in shortness . "
I 'm sorry , dear Cassio , but now is not the right time to bring up your case . My husband 's not himself . If his face changed as much as his personality has , I would n't recognize him . God knows I have done my best to argue for you , and made him angry at me for being so aggressive . You 'll just have to be patient for a little while . I 'll do what I can , more than I 'd do for myself . Let that be enough for you .
May God 's arm strike on our side ! These are frightening odds . God be with all of you , princes . I 'll go and join my men . If we do n't meet again before we meet in heaven , still we 'll meet joyfully . My noble Lord of Bedford , my dear Lord Gloucester , and my good Lord Exeter , and my kind kinsmen , warriors all , adieu .
There 's a girl in Belmont who 's inherited a huge amount of money , and she 's beautiful and -- even better -- she 's a good person . I think she likes me . Sometimes the expression on her face tells me she likes me . Her name is Portia . She 's as rich as that famous Roman heroine Portia , the daughter of Cato and wife of Brutus . Her wealth is world - famous . Famous and important men have come in from all over the world to try to marry her . The hair that hangs down on her forehead is like gold , calling every adventurer to Belmont like a gold rush . Antonio , if I only had enough money to hold my own against those suitors , I know I could win her !
Women are made for bearing , and so are you .
Help , help , oh , help !
The tawny cat has meowed three times .
Come , madam , come . I was sent in a hurry .
Kent , if you want to stay alive , stop talking .
justice will be rewarded . Whoever helps Edgar hide will die .
That 's the Moor ! I recognize his trumpet .
Pindarus ! Where are you , Pindarus ?
What , would you have me beg for my food ? Or become a lowlife , sticking up travelers on the road ? This is all that 's left for me to do , but I wo n't do it . I 'd rather give myself up to the hatred of a violent brother who refuses to recognize that we are brothers .
No , he 's in a place worse than hell . A devil in a tough uniform has him -- a man whose heart is as hard as steel . A fiend and a goblin , pitiless and rough . A wolf -- no , even worse -- a man all in tough leather . A backbiting friend , one who grabs people , who patrols the streets and passageways . A hunting dog that runs in
Brain - dead ! Nonsense . I defy brain - death ! I told you , someone 's at the gate .
So be it , Dolabella . Caesar 's thanks are my greatest reward . Be kind to her . I 'll relay to Caesar any request you want to give me .
Is it possible to be wise , bewildered , calm , furious , loyal , and neutral all at once ? Nobody can do that . The violent rage inspired by my love for Duncan caused me to act before I could think rationally and tell myself to pause . There was Duncan , his white skin all splattered with his precious blood . The gashes where the knives had cut him looked like wounds to nature itself . Then right next to him I saw the murderers , dripping with blood , their daggers rudely covered in gore . Who could have restrained himself , who loved Duncan and had the courage to act on it ?
I wo n't have it changed .
It 's even stranger when an angel is so angry . Divine , perfect woman , give me a chance to prove in detail that I 'm innocent of the evils you accuse me of .
That would be hard to do . She wo n't allow anyone in to see her , not even the duke 's messengers .
A lively young one ! How did you learn about this ?
But do n't do that . I have five - hundred gold coins , which I carefully saved when I was working for your late father . I meant to use it for my retirement , to help me when my old body was lame and forgotten in some dark corner . But take the money , and God , who feeds even the raven and looks after even the sparrow , will comfort me in my old age . Here is the gold , I give it all to you . Let me be your servant . I know I may be old , but I 'm strong and healthy , because in my youth I never drank nor lived recklessly . Therefore , my old age is like a blustery winter : cold , but kindly . Let me go with you . I 'll do everything a younger man could do for you .
Well , compared to a fine workman , you might call me a mere cobbler .
What 's going on , Horatio ? You 're pale and trembling . You agree now that we 're not imagining this , do n't you ? What do you think about it ?
God save your grace !
Why should men be more free than women ?
shot , who was disgraced , what terms the enemy insisted on . And they study how to express these things in proper military jargon , which they embellish with fashionable oaths . And what a beard trimmed like the general 's or a rough uniform will do among foaming mugs and brains washed with ale , you would n't believe . But you must learn to recognize such liars , or you will be greatly taken advantage of .
make your eyes jump out of their sockets , and your hair stand on end like porcupine quills . But mortals like you are n't allowed to hear this description of the afterlife . Listen , listen ! If you ever loved your poor dear father --
I do n't care what he told you in Latin . If this is n't legal justification for me to leave his service , I do n't know what is . He tells me to knock him , pound him , and put my fists to work on him . Well , I ask you , was that any way for a servant to behave toward his master -- especially when he 's clearly a bit crazy . I wish I had hit him . I think I 'd feel a lot better .
After all , who would put up with all life 's humiliations -- the abuse from superiors , the insults of arrogant men , the pangs of unrequited love , the inefficiency of the legal system , the rudeness of people in office , and the mistreatment good people have to take from bad -- when you could simply take out your knife and call it quits ? Who would choose to grunt and sweat through an exhausting life , unless they were afraid of something dreadful after death , the undiscovered country from which no visitor returns , which we wonder about without getting any answers from and which makes us stick to the evils we know rather than rush off to seek the ones we do n't ? Fear of death makes us all cowards , and our natural boldness becomes weak with too much thinking . Actions that should be carried out at once get misdirected , and stop being actions at all . But shh , here comes the beautiful Ophelia . Pretty lady , please remember me when you pray .
Oh , no . He 'll go to Mauritania and take the beautiful Desdemona with him , unless he gets stuck here for some reason . The best way to extend his stay here is to get rid of Cassio .
I know it 's the moon .
I will . My Lord of Westmoreland , take him to his tent .
Let four captains carry Hamlet like a soldier onto the stage . He would have been a great king if he had had the chance to prove himself . Military music and military rites will speak for his heroic qualities . Pick up the corpses . A sight like this suits a battlefield , but here at court it shows that much went wrong . Go outside and tell the soldiers to fire their guns in honor of Hamlet .
Would you walk out with me , sir?- -Oh , Desdemona --
But did n't you expect us to cut the cloth ?
Nonsense . I have the best armor in the world . I wish it were day !
I 'm not tall enough to make a believable priest , or skinny enough to look like a good student . But if you 're an honest man and a good host , that 's almost as good as being moral and studious . Here come the conspirators .
Hey , you 're being a stick in the mud , as cautious as a policemen on night patrol . If you 're a stick in the mud , we 'll pull you out of the mud --I mean out of love , if you 'll excuse me for being so rude -- where you 're stuck up to your ears . Come on , we 're wasting precious daylight . Let 's go !
Oh , you 're a clergyman ?
This man said , sir , that Don John , the Prince 's brother , was a villain .
Oh , a pit of dirt is what we need For a guest like this one here .
What does my powerful master wish for ? I 'm here .
We just want you to answer to your real name .
He carries a third of the world . Ca n't you see that ?
Calm down . Do n't you have any manners , you savage ?
Sir , may I have a word with you ? I 've gotten three pounds to free Mouldy and Bullcalf .
Gertrude , he says he 's found out the reason for your son 's insanity .
Do you know how an oyster makes its shell ?
Is she as tall as I am ?
Give me your sword . --A lowly peasant defying his lord like this ? She takes a sword and stabs the FIRST SERVANT from behind , killing him .
Made it for me ? I did n't order it .
Unfaithful , my lord ? With whom ? How am I unfaithful ?
Wait a moment , Friar . Which one of you is Beatrice ?
Look , here she comes , with your ungovernable wives in tow , like prisoners of her womanly persuasion . --Katherine , that cap of yours does n't look good on you . Take it off and throw it on the ground .
A man with a wife like that might ask , " Hey , wandering wit , where are you off to ? "
There are ten thousand --
Say he 's sick .
Then please tell me he 's all right .
Cover your faces , cover your faces . Get your masks on . There 's tax money coming down the hill , on its way to the King 's treasury .
Ca n't you somehow use your dissatisfaction to your own advantage ?
This is the bad luck that angers me : my wife speaks no English , and I speak no Welsh .
It 's nice of you to remind me . Since good digestion requires a good appetite , and good health requires both of those , here 's to good appetites , good digestion , and good health !
No , it 's not as deep as a well , or as wide as a church door , but it 's enough . It 'll do the job . Ask for me tomorrow , and you 'll find me in a grave . I 'm done for in this world , I believe . May a plague strike both your houses . Goddammit ! I ca n't believe that dog , that rat , that mouse , that cat could scratch me to death ! That braggart , punk villain who fights like he learned swordsmanship from a manual ! Why the hell did you come in between us ? He struck me from under your arm .
If our criminal master gets off free , I wo n't care what happens to me anymore .
Has it come to this ?
What am I , a cane ? How could I support anyone ? Do n't you recognize me , father ?
And still do , I swear by my hands .
My good sir ! God grant you a good day ! It 's great to see you out and about : I 'd heard you were sick . I hope your doctor knows you 're out . Though you 're not entirely past your youth , your lordship , you have a touch of age in you , a touch of the passage of time , and I must humbly urge you to take good care of your health .
He 's already done so .
Stop a moment , please . Did King Richard really proclaim that my brother-in-law Edmund Mortimer was next in line for the throne ?
Now get out of here . Good night . Everything depends on this : either be out of here before the night watchmen take their positions , or leave in disguise after daybreak . Take a little vacation in Mantua . I 'll find your servant , and he 'll update you now and then on your case as it stands here . Give me your hand . It 's late . Farewell . Good night .
Get away , you demon ! You talk about eating ? You 're a sorceress , like everyone else here . I 'll conjure you , like a spell : get away from me .
Yes , my good lord . Your preparation for war sounds like something .
There he goes again ! Please , bite him to death , I 'm begging you .
I should be ridiculed if I were offended so easily -- and laughed at even more for speaking of you disrespectfully , when I had no reason to speak of you at all .
No , by no means .
Did you see Octavia ?
And to you , most noble Caesar .
Hover about her and tell her she got what she deserved , with her children dead before their time .
Ha , cousin Silence , if only you 'd seen what this knight and I have seen ! Ha ! Am I right , Sir John ?
We 'll do our duty to you , sir .
I have nothing to do with what you 're talking about , my lord .
The cure for that illness would be to put you in shackles , and I would n't mind being your doctor .
" Caesar , beware of Brutus . Watch Cassius . Do n't go near Casca . Keep an eye on Cinna . Do n't trust Trebonius . Pay attention to Metellus Cimber . Decius Brutus does n't love you . You 've wronged Caius Ligarius . These men all have one intention , and it 's directed against Caesar . If you are n't immortal , watch those around you . A sense of security opens the door to conspiracy . I pray that the mighty gods defend you ! Your friend , Artemidorus . " I 'll stand here until Caesar passes by , and I 'll give him this as though it 's a petition . My heart regrets that good men are n't safe from the bite of jealous rivals . If you read this , Caesar , you might live . If not , the Fates are on the side of the traitors .
Let us speak privately awhile , please .
No , cousin , I 'm going to Fife .
It 's Cinna . I recognize his walk . He 's a friend . Cinna , where are you going in such a hurry ?
Some dungeon .
We 're as well off as we could have hoped . In Scotland , we do n't even know the meaning of the word fear .
Tell me , is your tardy master close at hand ?
Unhappy fortune ! By my brotherhood , the letter was not just a nice greeting . It was full of very important information . It 's very dangerous that it has n't been sent . Friar John , go and get me an iron crowbar . Bring it straight back to my cell .
So we need another prologue to tell everyone he 's not a real lion .
It 's time for you to know the whole story . Give me a hand and help me off with this magic cloak .
I 'm Robert Shallow , sir , a poor landowner in this county , and one of the King 's justices of the peace . How can I help you ?
Do n't tell us what our duty is .
I was as harsh as I could be while still being a lady .
Where 'd you learn a phrase like , " by my honor , " fool ?
Why was he sent to England ?
I wish you had the wit to accomplish that : it would be worth all your land . My goodness , this young , serious-minded boy does n't like me , and no one can make him laugh . But I guess that 's not surprising ; after all , he does n't drink any wine . None of those prim boys ever amount to anything : weak beer and too many fish dinners makes their blood cool . They all turn anemic , like young girls . And then , when they finally get married , they can only father girls because they do n't have the stuff to produce sons . Non - drinkers are all generally fools and cowards . The rest of us would probably be
Me , " greedy " ! You know , if you were anyone other than Brutus , that speech would be your last .
I bet my life some evil busybody , some meddling , lying jerk made up this rumor to get some position . I bet my life on it .
Oh yes -- to smell pork ? I do n't think so ! . Your prophet Jesus sent the devil into a herd of pigs . I 'm not going to eat that . I 'll buy with you , sell with you , talk with you , walk with you , and so on , but I wo n't eat with you , drink with you , or pray with you . Any news on the Rialto ? Who 's that ?
I 'd insult my manly wardrobe by weeping like a woman if I did n't have to comfort the weaker vessel here , as the jacket and hose ought to be brave for the sake of the petticoat . So , have courage , good Aliena .
That 's true . And it 's too bad , Brutus , that you do n't have any mirrors that could display your hidden excellence to yourself . I 've heard many of the noblest Romans -- next to immortal Caesar -- speaking of you , complaining of the tyranny of today 's government , and wishing that your eyes were working better .
I am neither of those things if you dislike them .
I 'll do so . Until then , think about the well-being of Rome .
Once Antonio got the knack of granting certain requests , denying others , promoting some officials and keeping down those who were getting too ambitious , he won over the people who used to be mine , or changed them -- remade them , you might say . Since he had control over the whole government and everyone in it , he soon made everyone sing his own song -- whichever song he happened to like . He became like the ivy that sticks to the side of the tree , and sucked my vitality out of me . --You 're not paying attention .
That 's your loss .
Truly , five years , which is as long --
When I meet this gentleman , I 'll tell him what you 've said .
It 's almost morning . You ca n't tell whether it 's day or night .
Oh , let me kiss his hand !
Why are you taking to me about the hangman ? If I hang , I 'll make half of a fat pair on the gallows , because if I hang , old Sir John will be hanging right with me -- and he 's not exactly thin . Please ! Our gang has some members you could never guess , and for their own amusement , they 're happy to lend the profession of thievery some respect . If we were ever investigated , they would smooth everything over . I 've got no wandering highwaymen , no thieves with homemade weapons , no red-faced drunks with crazy mustaches . Only men of calm and noble demeanor for me : magistrates and court officials . Men who can keep a secret ; who 'd rather smack you than speak , rather speak than drink , and rather drink than pray . --No! That 's a lie ! They pray all the time to England , their patron saint . Or rather , they do n't pray to her ; they prey on her . They ride her up and down and then make her their boots .
Find out the way , and I 'll find the right man . But now I have joyful news for you , girl .
Young budding virgin , fair and pure and sweet , where are you off to ? Or where do you live ? Your parents are lucky to have such a lovely child . And luckier still is the man who gets to be your husband and share your bed .
Please , do so .
I 'll take no lesser name than that of Jove 's own servant . So call me Ganymede . And what will you be called ?
He did touch on women a bit , but his body was aching with fever and he talked about the Whore of Babylon .
But how ? How will you get proof ? Are you going to hide and watch them having sex ?
No , you 'd still have your clothes on -- but , yes , I would n't think much of you . Are n't I your Rosalind ?
-- you 'll lose your smell .
Caesar 's better qualities exist in Brutus , and we will crown him .
Never mind . Let 's play billiards . Play with me , Charmian .
Sweet Phoebe - -
Good friends , the cause that joined us was noble . Do n't let some petty quarrel tear us apart . Let 's discuss this calmly . When we argue our differences with raised voices , we do more harm than good . So I plead with you to use reasonable words as you discuss these unreasonable deeds , and do n't lose your tempers .
We 've been praying for our husbands ' welfare . We hope they 're better off because of our prayers . Have they come back ?
No.
Look how they kiss and carry on ! Signior Lucentio , it 's a deal . I hereby swear to have nothing more to do with this girl . I formally declare her unworthy of all the attention and expense I have wasted on her .
What monstrous arrogance ! It 's a lie , you thread , you thimble , you measurement ! You flea , you louse , you winter cricket ! Disrespected in my own house by a spool of thread ! Get out of here you rag , you remnant , you piece of yardage , or I 'll measure you within an inch of your life with your own yardstick , and you 'll remember your yammering for the rest of your life . I tell you , you 've ruined her gown .
That 's him .
So , she 's in on this too ! Now I see that all three of them have gotten together to play this cruel trick on me . Hurtful Hermia , you ungrateful girl , have you conspired with these two to provoke me with this horrible teasing ? Have you forgotten all the talks we 've had together , the vows we made to be like sisters to one another , all the hours we spent together , wishing that we never had to say goodbye -- have you forgotten ? Our friendship in our schooldays , our childhood innocence ? We used to sit together and sew one flower with our two needles , sewing it on one piece of cloth , sitting on the same cushion , singing one song in the same key , as if our hands , our sides , our voices and our minds were stuck together . We grew together like twin cherries -- which seemed to be separate but were also together -- two lovely cherries on one stem .
Maybe some merchant at the marketplace invited him home for lunch . Sister , let 's eat and stop worrying . A man is master of his own freedom : time is his only master , and when the right moment comes along , he 'll come or go as he pleases . If this is so , be patient , sister .
No , I 've got something to say . I saved this young man 's life when he was half - dead , and nursed him back to health lovingly and tenderly . I devoted myself to him , since he looked noble and good .
What now ? What now ? Do you hear that ?
How is my generous sister ? Come help me bless this couple , so they will be prosperous and have many children .
Well , what was your dream ?
Good old knight , gather them all together at my tent . I 'll meet you there .
What ! You 're threatening to tell the king ? Go ahead , and do n't spare a single detail . Look , what I have said to you I will repeat in the presence of the king . If it means I 'll be sent to the Tower , so be it . It 's time for me to speak the truth . All the pains I took on King Edward 's behalf have been forgotten .
I am the worst person alive , and I know it the best . Oh , Antony , you extravagantly generous man , how would you have rewarded me for serving you faithfully when you reward my badness with all of this gold ! My heart feels like it 's about to explode . If grief does n't kill me , I 'll find a quicker way to kill myself -- even though I think grief will do the job just as well . I , fight against you , Antony ? No , I 'll go find some ditch to die in . The foulest fate would be most appropriate for me now in this latest phase of my life .
If I believed you , murderer , I would take my nails and scratch that beauty right off my cheeks .
He said he was going to buy me a necklace , but I never saw it .
We see the cause of all this pain . But we 'll have to investigate to discover the whole story .
Not me .
Is everyone here ?
who can control his fate ? I 'm not like that now . Do n't be afraid , even though you see me with a weapon . This is the end of my journey , the end of my life . Are you backing away in fear ? There 's no reason to be afraid . You could tap me with a feather and I 'd back away . Where would Othello go?- -Oh , look at you ! Such cruel luck ! You 're as pale as your nightgown ! When we meet on Judgment Day , that look of yours will send me from heaven to hell , where devils will grab me . You 're cold , cold , and you were never hot with lust . Oh you damned villain ! Whip me , you devils , so I do n't have to look at this heavenly sight ! Blow on me with hot winds , roast me in lava , drown me in liquid fire ! Oh , Desdemona ! Dead Desdemona ! Oh , oh !
" The dog returns to its own vomit , and the newly washed sow to its mud puddle . " You 'd take anything for a mistress .
And no doubt he is , gracious madam .
I 've had both of those , but their shelf-life has expired . I 'd better hide .
Seyton ! --I 'm sick at heart when I see --Seyton , come here ! --This battle will either secure my reign forever or else topple me from the throne . I have lived long enough . The course of my life is beginning to wither and fall away , like a yellowing leaf in autumn . The things that should go along with old age , like honor , love , obedience , and loyal friends , I cannot hope to have . Instead , I have passionate but quietly whispered curses , people who honor me with their words but not in their hearts , and lingering life , which my heart would gladly end , though I ca n't bring myself to do it . Seyton !
I trust your words . Just call me your love , and I will take a new name . From now on I will never be Romeo again .
There 's very little about her that 's gloomy , my lord . She 's only sad when she sleeps -- and not even then . Hero told me that Beatrice has often had dreams about being unhappy , and managed to wake herself from them by laughing .
Oh , do n't look so frustrated at having to wait so long . I promise you , Claudio , the time will go by quickly . While we 're waiting for the wedding , I 'm going to take on an impossible task : to make Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice fall in love with each other . I aim to see them matched , and with all of your help , I 'm sure we can make it happen .
Kent 's been banished just like that ? And the King of France gone in a huff ? And King Lear 's abdicated his authority , making his kingship a ceremonial title only ? All this so suddenly?- -Edmund , what 's going on ? What 's the news ?
Seriously , though , son Petruchio , I think you have the most thoroughgoing shrew of us all .
The ground is bloody . Search the graveyard . Go , some of you , arrest whoever you find .
Nor living ones , I hope .
Wait a minute , gentlemen . Be good enough to hear me out . Baptista is a noble gentleman -- one to whom my father is not completely unknown -- and lovely as his daughter is , she is entitled to any number of suitors -- myself among them .
And tied them up .
Good words are better than bad strokes , Octavius .
Are you hiding your forehead with a golden crown , when , if there was any justice in this world , it should be branded with the murders you committed -- your slaughter of the prince who held that crown , and of my sons and my brothers ? Tell me , you villainous lowlife , where are my children ?
Let 's see -- at the end of next September , I 'll be --
Sirrah , where 's Snare ?
You are welcome here . By making you thane of Cawdor , I have planted the seeds of a great career for you , and I will make sure they grow . Noble Banquo , you deserve no less than Macbeth , and everyone should know it . Let me bring you close to me and give you the benefit of my love and good will .
Niece , will you take care of those things I mentioned ?
Well , that turned out well in the end . Sir and madam , to make grand speeches about what majesty is , what service is , or why day is day , night is night , and time is time is just a waste of a lot of day , night , and time . Therefore , since the essence of wisdom is not talking too much , I 'll get right to the point here . Your son is crazy . " Crazy " I 'm calling it , since how can you say what craziness is except to say that it 's craziness ? But that 's another story .
Amen to that . I hope my life ends before my loyalty to you does . I 'll sleep over here . Sleep well !
Would you believe it , Hal ? Three or four I. O.U . 's worth forty pounds each , and my grandfather 's sealing ring .
If you do n't need it for some important reason , then give it back to me . Poor lady , she 'll go crazy when she sees it 's missing .
Kill me tomorrow -- but let me live tonight .
My lord , we 've only just got started .
I 'm telling you , get out of here , and do n't follow me around like this .
Grumio , hush ! God save you , Signior Gremio .
You suffered a loss like mine ?
Please wait , sir .
Now tell me . Who had him arrested ?
No , do n't even mention him . We should n't tell him about our plans . He 'll never follow anything that other men have started .
May God keep you well , sir .
Sir ?
You have n't heard of the war brewing between the Dukes of Cornwall and Albany ?
Listen ! I hear horses .
If you like , you can dine with us .
Well , that 's what you get to do . Two great enemies , in fact , enemies to my peace of mind . Tyrrel , I mean those bastards in the Tower .
Thanks , good Egeus . What 's new with you ?
I wish I knew what was in your heart .
Why does everyone always make fun of me ? What have I done to deserve this kind of treatment from you ? Is it not enough , is it not enough , young man , that I 'll never be pretty enough to get a kind look from Demetrius ? Do you have to harp on my inadequacy ? My God , it 's wrong for you to woo me in such a cruel , disdainful way . But goodbye . I have to tell you , I thought you were a much kinder person than this . Oh , how awful that a lady who 's been rejected by one man should therefore be treated horribly by another one !
I 'm totally worn out . My chase is too much for me . I 've spent most of my money , and tonight I got beaten up . The upshot is that I 've got a little more experience . So with no money , but a little more wisdom , I 'm going back to Venice .
Francis Flute , the bellows - repairman ?
The French ambassador arrived at that moment and asked to see the king . And , in fact , I think they 're meeting together right now . Is it four o'clock ?
And so do I , my lord .
Did he start weeping ?
Not necessary . For look : his clothing is just a bunch of pieces sewn together , and his whole body rests on legs as skinny as pins . He 's been pricked enough by pins and needles --do n't prick him anymore .
We 'll have to think about it carefully .
I watched him very closely .
With all my heart .
What did he say the symptoms were ?
Hey , give us some light here !
But where 's the money ?
I wish I could repay this happy news with good news of my own . But I have some news that should be howled in a barren desert where nobody can hear it .
Ah , but it 's getting dark , and the winds are strong and stormy . There 's hardly a bush for miles around . He 'll have no shelter .
But her sister seems quiet and well behaved , as a young girl should be . Shhh , Tranio .
Sir , sometimes he 's like a different person , a person who ca n't measure up to the former Antony .
Have faith , love me , and you will get better . And that 's where I 'll end , because someone is hurrying this way .
Honestly , you 're speaking the truth -- ever since the fools were silenced , the foolishness of wise men has become all the more apparent . Here comes Monsieur Le Beau .
Please let me go . I 'm not well . Send the deed after me and I 'll sign it .
Observe how Antony takes his defeat and how his attitude influences his actions .
Well , she can get used to it .
If I 've punished you too harshly , I 'm ready to make it up to you now , since I 've given you a third of my life -- everything I live for -- my daughter Miranda . I put her in your hands . All the trouble I put you through was to test your love for her , and you 've passed the test remarkably well . As heaven is my witness , I give you this valuable gift . Oh Ferdinand , do n't smile at me for bragging about Miranda , for you 'll see soon enough that she outshines any praise of her .
Oh my , time goes by slowly when you 're sad . Was that my father who left here in such a hurry ?
So , lie there , my magic . Wipe your eyes . Take comfort . I arranged the horrible sight of this shipwreck , which moved you to such pity , so carefully that not a single person was hurt -- no , not so much as a hair on anyone 's head was destroyed in the ship that you saw sink . Sit down . It 's time for you to know more .
You 're talking about killing ?
But tell me , my lord : as to the softening of this bill proposed by the House of Commons , does his Majesty favor it or not ?
Yes , and you dared Caesar to fight the battle at Pharsalia , where he fought against Pompey . But Caesar ignores offers that do n't give him an advantage , and so should you .
My lord ?
Do n't , my lord .
Are you good at those kinds of things ?
Yes , well , things could get better .
Shame on you ! What , are you crazy ?
How could it be wisdom ! To leave his wife , his children , his house , and his titles in a place so unsafe that he himself flees it ! He does n't love us . He lacks the natural instinct to protect his family . Even the fragile wren , the smallest of birds , will fight against the owl when it threatens her young ones in the nest . His running away has everything to do with fear and nothing to do with love . And since it 's so unreasonable for him to run away , it has nothing to do with wisdom either .
We have decided , my lord . We 're in .
Off ! Take off my armor . Not even Ajax 's famous shield , made of seven layers of oxhide and covered in bronze , could protect my heart from this attack . Oh , chest , obey me ! Heart , for once be stronger than all the rest of the body combined . Break out of my ribcage ! Faster , Eros , faster . I wo n't be a soldier anymore . Battered armor , be off . You were worn with honor . Leave me awhile .
What we do we have been commanded to do .
A man old Frederick , your father , loves .
Well , I 'm the man you 're speaking of . Please , tell me your cure .
And request that she come here .
Yes , my lord , that 's true . At Philippi , Caesar kept his sword in its sheath , like a dancer , while I commanded the armies that conquered Cassius and Brutus . Caesar fought only through lieutenants . He had no experience with the brave contests of war . But now ... never mind .
You 're wrong , sir , very wrong . Why , what do you imagine his name to be ?
Shut up , fool ! Your master and his servant are here . You 're telling a lie .
It does have a back like a weasel 's .
Call the earls of Surrey and Warwick . Tell them to read over these letters before they come , and to think carefully about them . Hurry .
Well , I could answer that if we went to war on male and female horses alike -- the male horses would be totally distracted and useless . The mares would be ridden by their riders and the male horses .
Oh , may God bless you , sir . I swear , welcome to London . God bless that sweet face of yours ! Oh Jesus ! Have you come from Wales ?
If he hears you , you 'll make him angry .
Definitely a tailor , sir . A sculptor or a painter could n't have screwed him up as bad as that , even as an apprentice .
I do n't follow , my lord .
The courageous Caesar !
Someone who makes a promise and breaks it .
Take revenge for his horrible murder , that crime against nature .
Eros , can you still see me ?
No , not at all . She mocks all her suitors so severely that they drop the suit .
What 's the matter ?
Why should I be afraid of your judgment when I have n't done anything wrong ? Many of you own slaves , which -- like your donkeys and dogs and mules -- you use to perform awful jobs just because you bought them . Should I say to you , " Set them free ! Let them marry your children ! Why are you making them work so hard ? Let their beds be as soft as yours , and let them eat the same food as you " ? No , you 'd answer , " The slaves are ours . " And that 's just how I 'm answering you . The pound of flesh that I want from him was very expensive . It 's mine and I 'm going to get it . If you refuse me , the laws of Venice have no validity . I await justice . So answer me . Will I get it ?
Small ? No , I could live in a walnut shell and feel like the king of the universe . The real problem is that I have bad dreams .
Yes , I 'm talking about Launcelot , sir .
If I catch my father helping the king , he 'll seem even more guily . I 'll do what I must loyally , even though it pains me to take action against my father .
No , he did not .
No , sir , she 's human . But by the grace of God , she 's mine . I chose her for my wife when I thought I had no father to ask advice of . She 's the daughter of this famous Duke of Milan I heard so much about but never saw before . He 's given me a second life , and marrying her makes him a second father to me .
Get out , demon ! Why are you bothering this poor man ! Ca n't you talk about anything besides ladies ?
Yes , but a small sum of money will pay to dig a trench , which will reclaim this bit of land on the north side . Then it will run straight along .
Yes , and one other place , if you 'll only let me name it .
I 'll tell you : it 's because of a law as plain as Father Time 's bald head .
Pompey , you cannot frighten us with your navy . We 'll meet you at sea . You know that on land our army is far greater than yours .
Hurry , Sir Michael , bring this sealed letter as fast as you can to the Lord Marshal . Bring this one to Scroop , and all the rest to whom they are addressed . If you knew how important they were , you would hurry .
Tom will chase them off . --Go away , you mongrels ! Whether you bite to kill , Mastiff , greyhound , or ugly mutt ,
Do you love me ?
Who goes there ?
I would n't have dared !
Well , in and of itself , it is a good life , but given that it 's a shepherd 's life , it 's worthless . In the fact that it 's solitary , I enjoy it very much ; but in the sense that it 's private , it 's terrible . Now , I 'm very pleased with it being outdoors , but in its not being at the court , it is boring . Being a simple life , it suits me very well , but being a life without plenty , it does n't suit me at all . Are you any kind of philosopher yourself , shepherd ?
Yes , why should n't she ?
We 'll hit him on the head with the handles of our swords , then throw him in the wine barrel in the next room .
I go unwillingly . I wish to God that the golden crown that I 'll have to wear were red-hot steel and burned me straight through to the brain ! I wish I could be anointed queen with deadly venom , not oil , and that I would die before anyone even had a chance to say , " God save the Queen ! "
You 're in love ?
Oh no ! I never gave him reason to be jealous .
Good lieutenant , good corporal , do n't fight each other here .
Sir , I make my living using an awl . I stick to my work ; I do n't meddle in politics or chase women . I 'm a surgeon to old shoes . When they 're endangered , I save them . The noblest men who ever walked on leather have walked on my handiwork .
You , Alonso , manipulated me and my daughter cruelly , and your brother helped you . -- You 're paying the price for it now , Sebastian . -- My brother , you were so greedy for power that you forgot natural compassion and our bond as brothers , and were ready to kill your king --I forgive you , though you 're a monster . -- Look at them , they 're starting to understand . Soon their confused minds will clear up . But at this point not a single one of them recognizes me . -- Ariel , get me my hat and sword from my room . I 'll take off the clothes I 'm wearing now , and put on the ones I used to wear in Milan . --Soon , spirit , you 'll be free .
Oh Scotland , Scotland !
Yes , if you want to help yourself . He 's having dinner tonight with a prostitute , and I 'll go visit him . He does n't know he 's been appointed governor yet . When you see him walking by here you can nab him . I 'll be nearby to help you , and between the two of us we can handle him . Come on , do n't stand there in a daze . Come along with me . I 'll give you such reasons for killing him that you 'll feel obliged to snuff him out . It 's nearly dinner time , and the night 's going to be wasted . Let 's go !
Call him in .
Lord Gloucester has helped him leave . Thirty-five or thirty-six of his knights met him at the gate , and together with some others they 've set off for Dover , where they claim to have powerful friends .
What a dish of poison she 's mixed for him !
Exactly how long is that , do you think ?
We have to think about that . If it does pass , the Church will lose more than half of what it possesses , because the bill would strip us of enough real estate left to the church by wealthy , pious men in their wills to support fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights , six thousand two hundred squires , and a hundred well-supplied almshouses for the relief of lepers , old-age pensioners , the poor , and those too weak or sick to work . Add to that a yearly sum of a thousand pounds to go directly into the king 's coffers . That 's what the bill says .
I rather think , sir , that yours will not grant a request in any case .
No , sir . He 's furious because you insulted him , and he has a right to satisfaction . So go out there and give him what he wants . You ca n't go back into the house unless you want to fight with me -- and if you 're willing to do that , you might as well just go and fight with him . So go to the orchard , or take out your sword right now . You 're going to have to fight one way or another , there 's no doubt about that , or else you 'll have to stop wearing a sword and claiming to be a gentleman .
Your grace , Archbishop of York , go forward in God 's name .
I beg your pardon , my lords , but the king gave me orders that no one , however high in rank , should speak privately to Clarence .
And I departed in a rage , right ?
Which ring did you give away , my lord ? Not the one I gave you , I hope .
When she landed at the port , Antony sent an invitation for her to come to supper . She replied by saying that it would be better for him to be her guest instead . Our courteous Antony , who has never said " no " to any woman , after spending plenty of time being groomed by the barber , goes to the feast . For that simple meal , he paid with his heart -- even though it was only his eyes that were satisfied .
I do indeed , my lord .
Because you 're like the lowborn fellow who strikes the bell -- you keep interrupting my thoughts . I am not in the giving mood today .
If it 's possible to do this without putting yourself in danger , dear Captain Blunt , say goodnight to him from me and give him this important note .
Yes , they 're spirits that I 've called out of their prisons to perform my whims .
You had better do that . I can barely speak to thank you myself .
My God , Poins , I feel terrible wasting precious time on this idleness when a huge black storm is brewing , soon to open up on our bare , vulnerable heads . Give me my coat and my sword . Good night , Falstaff .
Indeed , I will . Kneel and tell me again . I 'll stand , and so will Trinculo .
If you have tears , prepare to shed them now . You all know this cloak . I remember the first time Caesar ever put it on . It was a summer 's evening ; he was in his tent . It was the day he overcame the Nervii warriors . Look , here 's where Cassius 's dagger pierced it . See the wound that Casca made . Through this hole beloved Brutus stabbed . And when he pulled out his cursed dagger , see how Caesar 's blood came with it , as if rushing out a door to see if it was really Brutus who was knocking so rudely . For Brutus , as you know , was Caesar 's angel . The gods know how dearly Caesar loved him ! This was the most unkind cut of all . For when the noble Caesar saw him stab , he understood his beloved Brutus 's ingratitude ; it was stronger than the violence of traitors , and it defeated him , bursting his mighty heart . And at the base of Pompey 's statue , with his cloak covering his face , which was dripping with blood the whole time , great Caesar fell . Oh , what a fall it was , my countrymen ! Then you and I and all of us fell down , while bloody treason triumphed . Oh , now you weep , and I sense that you feel pity . These are gracious tears . But if it overwhelms you to look at Caesar 's wounded cloak , how will you feel , kind men , now ? Look at this , here is the man -- scarred , as you can see , by traitors .
Your highness , you 've got him all wrong . The Prince is only studying his criminal companions , the way one studies a foreign language . In order to truly learn a language , one must learn even the most immodest curse word -- which , as you know , is only learned in order to be identified and , thereafter , avoided . So , like vulgar language , the Prince will get rid of his followers when the time is right . Then they 'll live on in his memory as guidelines , by which he 'll judge the conduct of others . In this sense , he 'll change his past bad deeds to good ends .
The women you rape are the ones who 'll have to " sense " it .
What do you want , fellow ? And how did you get in here ?
I 'll never believe a madman until I can see his brains . But I 'll get you a candle and paper and ink .
Why is he going there today ?
Now Antony has to leave her completely .
He 's a coward , a total coward . He 's religiously devoted to his cowardice .
I wish I were in an alehouse in London ! I would give all my glory for a mug of ale and safety .
Well , you have given me great comfort . Go inside and tell my mother that I 'm gone . I made my father angry , so I went to Friar Lawrence 's cell to confess and be forgiven .
Sir --
No , after you .
Can you tell me whether Rosalind , Duke Senior 's daughter , has also been banished ?
I pray to God he is n't .
Oh , sun , I will never see another one of your sunrises . Luck and Antony separate here and now . Here we 'll shake hands good - bye . Is it all come to this ? The brave men who followed me like little dogs , whom I rewarded , have left me to follow Caesar . I 've been stripped of everything , betrayed . Oh , that devious Egyptian spirit ! Her charms launched my wars and called them back again . Pleasing her was my main goal , and she lured me to total defeat . Where are you , Eros ! Eros !
" The muffled queen " ?
Why do you think I 'm making fun of you when I tell you I love you ? People do n't cry when they 're mocking someone .
He 's afraid to come in .
He 's as ugly in his manners as he is in appearance . -- Go , sir , to my room , and take your companions with you . If you want me to forgive you , make it neat and tidy .
Just because I act familiar with you sometimes and let you fool around and joke with me , you try to take advantage of my affection . You pull pranks when I 'm in a serious mood . You know , foolish gnats come out in the sunshine , but they creep back into their holes when it 's dark . If you want to crack jokes , first check what kind of mood I 'm in and then adjust your behavior to suit me . If you do n't learn this rule , I 'll have to beat it into your sconce .
But , sir --
Have you heard about Albany 's and Cornwall 's troops ?
Oh , a thousand of them , all of which I 've forgotten .
They treat me like garbage here . They keep me in darkness , and send idiotic priests to talk to me -- those asses ! -- and do everything they can to insist I 'm insane .
I can arrange it so that at some indecent hour of the night , she looks out Hero 's bedroom window .
Give me your torch , boy . Go away and stay apart from me . Put the torch out , so I ca n't be seen . Hide under the yew - trees over there . Listen to make sure no one is coming through the graveyard . If you hear any one , whistle to me to signal that someone is approaching . Give me those flowers . Do as I tell you . Go .
I 'm never in the mood to laugh when I hear sweet music .
Ooh , listen to the scary devil speaking from inside him ! Did n't I tell you ? Sir Toby , Lady Olivia wants you to take care of him .
Now you 're talking , Hal . Thieves like us operate at night , by the moon and stars , and not by the sun . I hope , pretty boy , that when you become king , God save your Grace - -or maybe I should just call you " Your Majesty , " since you do n't have any grace --
Return to the gracious duke , good Catesby . Tell him that the mayor , some citizens , and I have come to confer with his grace in matters of great importance concerning the general good .
Now , let it work . Trouble , you have begun -- take whatever course you choose !
I really do n't know .
Yes , but wasting chastity on a dirty slut is like putting good meat in a dirty dish .
I gave him no order . I gave him the material .
Thank me ? For what ?
She said something she should n't have said , I 'm sure of that . Heaven knows what secrets she 's keeping .
No , none that you 're smart enough to make .
I do n't want to hear any more about it .
If fate wants me to be king , perhaps fate will just make it happen and I wo n't have to do anything .
They were lusting after each other . You could tell by how they were acting that they 're going to be lovers . They were so close that their breath was mingling . When two people get that intimate , sex will soon follow . Disgusting ! But listen to me ; let me guide you . I brought you here from Venice . Be on guard duty tonight . I 'll put you in charge . Cassio does n't know you . I 'll be nearby . Make Cassio angry somehow , either by speaking too loud , or insulting his military skills , or however else you want .
Who do you want to work for ?
There 's little or nothing of that .
Sir , you can thank yourself for this great loss , because you would n't bless Europe with your daughter , but instead pimped her out to an African . At least you can be thankful that she wo n't be around to remind you of your loss .
Two or three men are groaning . But it 's dark out , and it could be a trap . It 's not safe to go near them till we get more help .
Goodbye , goodbye . If you see anything else , let me know . Tell your wife to watch her . Leave me alone now , Iago .
Please , carry me into another room . Quietly . Please .
Yes , and he 'll keep getting funnier till he dies . Old age always makes people act funny -- even wise people , but fools more than anybody .
Is there no voice worthier than my own to appeal to Caesar to repeal the order that my brother be banished ?
Well , our value is debatable , I bet . Let 's go , we 'll obey you .
It 's more than some , sir : it 's all , all that I have . He 's eaten me out of house and home . He 's put everything I own into that fat belly of his . But I 'll get some of it back again , or I 'll ride you all night like a bad dream .
Is this your good friend who 's in so much trouble ?
Just get the point across , however flowery you want to be .
Oh , my , poor man ! How pale and listless he looks !
I do n't dare come down -- forgive me , my lord --I do n't dare , for fear of capture . I will never be exhibited as lucky Caesar 's prize . If knives , poison , or snakes have edge , effect , or venom , I am safe from that fate . Your wife Octavia , with her self-effacing eyes and self-righteous assumptions , wo n't get any praise from patronizing me . But come . Come up here , Antony -- help me , ladies -- we must carry you up . Help us , good friends .
If a dog had howled like that , I would have hung it . I hope his horrible singing does n't have any ill effects . I would 've rather listened to the night raven screech , even if the bird 's noise does give me the plague , as they say it will .
I 'm hanging on every word you say .
They 're here , close by . Now hide .
Helena is nearby , boss . The young man who I mistook for this one is there too , begging her to love him . Should we watch this ridiculous scene ? Lord , what fools these mortals are !
There was never a ruler as excellent as he . But gods , you give us faults so we 'll be human . Caesar is upset .
My dear Signior Leonato , hosting my whole army is such a huge burden , but you accept it -- and me -- with open arms . Most people choose to avoid trouble , but you run to it .
Well , praise the Lord you 're ugly . Maybe sluttishness will follow . Be that as it may , I 'm going to marry you . To that end , I 've spoken with Sir Oliver Martext , the vicar from the next village , and he 's promised to meet us here and marry us .
Give me your hand . I think I hear the drums far away . Come , father , I 'll leave you at a friend 's house .
Indeed , it 's a strange time . But men tend to interpret things however suits them and totally miss the actual meaning of the things themselves . Is Caesar visiting the Capitol tomorrow ?
Who 's going to stop me ?
Any four you choose .
No , Ophelia --
No , you 're right . I actually get some good from your face : it 's like a skull , or a death token . I ca n't look at your face without thinking of the flames of hell , and Dives from the Bible , who burned eternally . If there were anything pious about you , I could swear oaths on your face . I could say , " Now , by this fire , which is God 's angel ... " But you 're a complete sinner , and if it were n't for the light in your face , you 'd be the son of darkness . When you ran up Gadshill at night to find my horse , I could have sworn you were a will - o - the - wisp or a fireball . You 're an endless torchlight parade , a permanent bonfire . Walking with you from tavern to tavern at night has saved me a thousand fire in candles and flashlights . But the money I 've spent on wine for you would have been enough to buy the most expensive candles in Europe . I 've kept that nose of yours burning for thirty-two years , God bless me .
Fill the cups until they run over .
All right , then , do what you like . I wo n't leave today . Not tomorrow , either . I 'll leave when I 'm good and ready . The door is open , sir . Feel free to use it . Go on , wear your boots out ! As for me , I 'll leave when I like . If you 're this high-handed to start with , I can imagine how arrogant and arbitrary you 'll be as a husband .
Absolutely -- he is stuffed , like a dummy . As for what he 's stuffed with -- well , nobody 's perfect .
Some water will fix that .
Neither the sky nor the earth have been quiet tonight . Calphurnia cried out three times in her sleep , " Help , someone ! They 're murdering Caesar ! " Who 's there ?
Be quiet , Signior Gremio . I say he shall go to prison .
Okay , who does it trot for ?
But you turn that sun into a shadow . Take my son , for example . He is dead now . You put out his bright life forever . You are building your nest in our nest . Oh God who 's watching , do n't let him get away with this ! He won his position violently . Let him lose it that way , too .
Did you speak to him ?
If you agree , I 'll hide you somewhere where you can eavesdrop on us talking about it , and hear how he feels with your own ears . You wo n't have to wait longer than until tonight .
and I ca n't tell the difference between each other 's handwriting .
Go on , you 're questioning me evilly .
It 's not just your fool here who can say whatever he wants , but your whole obnoxious entourage keeps whining and arguing , bursting out in intolerably vicious riots . Sir , I thought you could put an end to all this if I told you about it . But judging by what you 've said and done recently , I 'm worried that you do n't mind this chaos , and even approve of it . If that 's true , it 's shameful . I realize that restraining your knights
I did n't accuse you of lying . Are you out of your mind and deaf too ? Damn your wine ! This is what happens when you drink too much . Your monster can go to hell , and you can too !
And is everyone who swears and lies a traitor ?
Just think , I could be Count Malvolio !
The armies have merely changed places , Titinius , because Octavius has been overthrown by noble Brutus 's forces at the very moment that Antony overthrew Cassius 's legions .
Yes , like your horse , who , staggering under your boasts , would trot more easily if some of them dismounted .
I wo n't either , sir .
The night has been chaotic . The wind blew down through the chimneys where we were sleeping . People are saying they heard cries of grief in the air , strange screams of death , and terrible voices predicting catastrophes that will usher in a woeful new age . The owl made noise all night . Some people say that the earth shook as if it had a fever .
Now , Antony , our prayers have been answered . You said the enemy would n't come down but keep to the hills and upper regions . It seems not . Their forces are nearby . They intend to challenge us here at Philippi , responding to our challenge before we 've even challenged him .
He does n't seem to be alive . Oh , my heart !
Get your hands on some money and everything will be all right . I know you 'll win over Olivia in the end .
How are things now ? He looks calmer than he did before .
Brother , I shall . Go , uncle Exeter , and brother Clarence , and you , brother Gloucester , Warwick and Huntingdon , go with the king . You have full power to confirm , change , or add to any of my demands in any
That 's how my future father-in-law Capulet wants it , and I 'm not dragging my feet .
To celebrate a marriage of true love , and give a gift to the lovers .
Declare yourself to me . Are you an officer ? Or are you low , vulgar , and of the common people ?
I say there was an earthquake when I was born .
Oh , Antony ! Oh , you phoenix !
Oh , go , leave me . I knew you 'd turn out this way . My friends told me as much , and I knew it , too . But I was won over by your flattering words . I 'm just another girl whom you 've cast aside . So , take me , death ! You 'll be back at two o'clock ?
Oh , my lady , I 'm ashamed to admit it .
Shadow will be useful in the summer . Prick him , too . We 'll need him , for there are a lot of shadows filling up this roster .
Did he confess ?
Do n't worry . He wo n't see my face ever again . Lysander and I are running away from here . Before I saw Lysander , Athens seemed like paradise to me . But Lysander 's so attractive that he 's turned heaven into hell !
How long do you plan to stay here in this forest ?
You ca n't play any part except Pyramus . Because Pyramus is a good-looking man , the most handsome man that you could find on a summer 's day , a lovely gentlemanly man . So you 're the only one who could play Pyramus .
Now listen , either give me my ring or give me the necklace . I hope you 're not trying to cheat me .
What 's going on these days ? Is n't there one man left in the world who knows not to take a wife ? She 's just going to cheat on him . Will I never see a sixty - year old bachelor again or will all men be swindled into marriage while they 're young ? Go ahead , then , if you have to yoke yourself to marriage , like an ox carrying his load , and throw away your free time . Look , Don Pedro has come back for you .
Let 's beat him in front of his whore .
They vanished strangely .
Alright my witty friend , this joke has worn out your pump . Its thin skin is all worn out . The joke is all you have left .
What 's the treasure , uncle ?
He 's an evil one , father . I do n't like him .
And me , too , my royal sovereign .
That 's true , my good boy . --Come on , take us to that hut .
Nice to see you again , Horatio -- that is your name , right ?
For lawyers on vacation , because they sleep their holidays away , with no sense of how time moves .
Our world sure is spinning fast , my lord . I believe it wo n't stop moving and stand upright till Richard wears the wreath of the realm .
I do n't blame him . The sky was full of fiery meteors and comets when I was conceived , and when I was born , the entire earth shook like a coward .
Are you crazy ?
Afterward , will you write a sonnet for me , praising my beauty ?
Get out of here , you fool ! Since you 're a fortuneteller I wo n't bring charges of witchcraft against you .
I assure you he can .
You have n't slept .
He must do this , or I 'll recant the pardon I just delivered .
They shouted three times . What was the last cry for ?
Sure - -when my husband , holy Harry , died and when my sweet son died .
He was on his way here with your wife .
Young though I am , I 've been observing these three blowhards closely . I am " man " -- which is to say , servant -- to all three of them . Yet not one among them , if all three were to wait on me , could be my " man , " because three such fakes do n't amount to a man . Take Bardolph : he is cowardly and blustery . He acts tough , but he does n't fight . Pistol , meanwhile , has a lethal tongue but an inert sword . He destroys words but keeps his weapon in one piece . As for Nym , he 's heard men of valor are men of few words , so he refuses to pray lest he should be thought a coward . But he has as few good deeds as he has bad words -- for he never cracked anyone 's head but his own , and that was against a post when he was drunk . They will steal anything and call it spoils . Bardolph stole a lute case , carried it for thirty-six miles , and sold it for a penny and a half . Nym and Bardolph are sworn brothers in crime , and in Calais they stole a fire shovel : I could see from that that they had no pride . They would like me to be as familiar with men 's pockets as their gloves and handkerchiefs , which goes against my manhood , because to take something from another 's pocket and put it into my own is plain stealing . I must leave them and seek some better employment . Their villainy nauseates me , and I must therefore vomit it up .
No , do n't be ashamed , Cleopatra . You 're very prudent to set a little aside .
Is your name Wart ?
We 'll meet them near Birnam Wood . They are coming that way .
Give me your hand . Who 's there ?
Will you break my heart ?
That damned old lady ! Oh , that most wicked fiend ! Is it a worse sin for her to want me to break my vows or for her to say bad things about my husband after she praised him so many times before ? Away with you and your advice , Nurse . From now on , I will never tell you what I feel in my heart . I 'm going to the Friar to find out his solution . If everything else fails , at least I have the power to take my own life .
We have done well , my valiant countrymen . But it 's not over . The French are still fighting .
He rode that prologue like a wild horse . He did n't know how to stop it . The moral of this story is that it 's not enough to speak ; you have to speak grammatically .
That 's the truth .
She says something , sir , but I will not repeat it to you .
Calm down . You 're not going anywhere .
Mine , Hal , mine .
My soul depends on it --
Maria , our lady wants you .
There never was a monarch better feared and loved than yourself , your Majesty . I do n't think there 's a single unhappy subject living under the protection of your government .
Listen to that Petruchio : she says she 'll see you hanged first .
Wait a minute , princes . You know his highness has these episodes all the time . Move away from him . Give him air ; he 'll be all right soon .
Yes , and wherefore . You know the old saying : " Every ' why ' has a ' wherefore . ' "
If this business would really be finished when I did the deed , then it would be best to get it over with quickly . If the assassination of the king could work like a net , sweeping up everything and preventing any consequences , then the murder would be the be-all and end-all of the whole affair , and I would gladly put my soul and the afterlife at risk to do it . But for crimes like these there are still punishments in this world . By committing violent crimes we only teach other people to commit violence , and the violence of our students will come back to plague us teachers . Justice , being equal to everyone , forces us to drink from the poisoned cup that we serve to others . The king trusts me in two ways . First of all , I am his kinsman and his subject , so I should always try to protect him . Second , I am his host , so I should be closing the door in his murderer 's face , not trying to murder him myself . Besides , Duncan has been such a humble leader , so free of corruption , that his virtuous legacy will speak for him when he dies , as if angels were playing trumpets against the injustice of his murder . Pity , like an innocent newborn baby , will ride the wind with winged angels on invisible horses through the air to spread news of the horrible deed to everyone everywhere . People will shed a flood of tears that will drown the wind like a horrible downpour of rain . I ca n't spur myself to action . The only thing motivating me is ambition , which makes people rush ahead of themselves toward disaster .
Do you remember her face ? Was it long or round ?
Oh God ! --Oh Nurse , how can this be stopped ? My husband is alive on earth , my vows of marriage are in heaven . How can I bring those promises back down to earth , unless my husband sends them back down to me by dying and going to heaven ? Give me comfort . Give me advice . Oh no ! Oh no ! Why does heaven play tricks on someone as weak as me ? What do you say ? Do n't you have one word of joy ? Give me some comfort , Nurse .
Oh , and young men never die ?
The Queen is here , my lord .
He is the prince of horses . His neigh is like a monarch 's command . His face demands respect .
Forget about him , Jack ! Come , we 'll go in there . We 'll wait for the mourners and stay for dinner .
But tell us where it is , so we can take it to the chapel .
Go back to him . Tell him that his cheeks still bear the pink flush of youth , and that the world expects to see something remarkable from him . His treasure , his navy , and his armies might belong to a coward , and his ministers might be able to succeed just as well on behalf of a child as under the command of Caesar . Therefore , I dare him to lay aside his fancy trappings and meet this old man in single combat , sword against sword , just the two of us . I 'll write the challenge . Follow me .
Learn to see better , Lear , and let me stay here where you can look to me for good advice .
Forgive me , de elbow .
I have a good reason to cry , but my heart will splinter into a hundred thousand pieces before I let myself cry . --Oh , Fool , I 'll go mad !
Noble Earl , I have reliable news from Shrewsbury .
John , my brother , you 've bravely proven yourself in this , your first battle .
Say goodbye to your sisters .
Come on , let 's go . Right when things are the most fun is the best time to leave .
I 'm Sir Topas the priest . I 've come to visit Malvolio the lunatic .
Captain Pisser , be quiet ! It 's late . I beg of you , stop being angry !
Then come on . I must be restored to health by an injury . Draw your trustworthy sword , which you have used in such service to your country .
Sir , this is the house . Would you like me to ring ?
Not the evil wind that blows no one toward any good . Sweet knight , you are now one of the hugest men in the country .
What do you want ?
Me too .
Please , your majesty , I do n't have a glib way with words and I only say what I mean . If I decide to do something , then I do it instead of talking about it . So I beg your majesty to let people know that it was n't because I did something atrocious that I fell from your favor . I did n't murder or commit any immoral or lustful act . I 'm out of favor simply because I 'm not a fortune - hunter and I do n't have a smooth way with words -- and I 'm a better person because of it , even though it has cost me your love .
You do me wrong by taking me out of the grave . You 're a soul in heaven , but I 'm tied to the fiery wheel of a torture machine in hell . Even my tears burn me like molten lead .
As God is my witness , you know you 're mine .
Then my love is humble . I do n't feel any urge to see a more handsome man than this one .
Well , well , I do n't care .
to wage war . I charge you , in the name of God , be careful what you say . For mighty kingdoms such as England and France have never gone to war with one another without much bloodshed , every innocent drop of which cries out against the wrongdoer who caused such loss of life without good reason . With this in mind , speak , my lord . And I will listen , consider , and earnestly believe that what you say is spoken with a conscience as pure as a newly baptized soul .
A breath from rotten lungs , maybe .
Sir , that 's well said and well thought out . Now , since you count yourself among Bianca 's suitors , you must -- as we already have -- pay this gentlemen to whom we are all so indebted .
I 'll send him to Parthia . Whether he 's truly gifted or just lucky , what the Fortuneteller said is true . Even the dice obey Caesar . When we compete in sports , my skill is defeated by his luck . If we pick numbers in a lottery , he wins . His roosters always beat mine at the cockfights . His quails beat mine , even against the odds , when mine have the advantage . I 'll return to Egypt . Though I 've made this marriage to keep peace with Caesar , my pleasure remains in the East , with Cleopatra .
If it turns out he was n't , certain people are going to get it .
The ambassadors are back from Norway , sir .
That it was , sir .
Hello , Curan .
This is a guy who 's been praised for his honest bluntness , and who now insolently pretends to be plainspoken and twists the natural meanings of words . No flattery for him , no sir ! He 's honest , he 's got to speak the truth . If people take what he says , fine . If not , he 's got truth on his side ! I know his type . He 's sneaky behind all his so-called bluntness , sneakier than twenty brown-nosing bootlickers who only tell you what you want to hear .
How long has she been like this ?
Romeo killed Tybalt . Tybalt killed Mercutio . Who should now pay the price for Mercutio 's life ?
Give me your hand , sir .
He 's fainted ! Oh Cassio , Cassio , Cassio !
It must be . By now , Hero and Margaret have done their part with Beatrice . The two bears wo n't bite each other the next time they meet .
Where should we go stealing tomorrow , Jack ?
Be quiet , for shame ! The cure for confusion is not yelling and screaming . You had this child with the help of heaven . Now heaven has her .
Go and disperse our army , too , Lord Westmoreland .
" That traitor Mortimer ! " He never faltered , my lord , except through an accident of war . I 'll prove it , by speaking about the many wounds he heroically suffered when he spent an hour in brutal hand-to-hand combat against Glendower on the grassy banks of the Severn River . They broke three times from fighting , and they drank three times from the Severn . The river itself was frightened by their horrible looks . Its water became discolored with the blood of these brave fighters , and the Severn ran off , as if to hide itself in the weeds on its banks . Treachery has never used deadly wounds to cover its operations , and Mortimer could never have willingly suffered so many injuries . Do not let him be slandered by calling him a traitor .
Against my brother Lucius ?
I like her more than I can say . Bassanio should live an upstanding life because having a wife like Portia is a blessing . It 's as if he found heaven here on earth . And if he does n't deserve this joy on earth , he 'll never deserve it in heaven . Imagine what would happen if two gods in heaven made a bet . If one of them used Portia as his stake , the other god would have a hard time coming up with a human woman to match her value . The poor rude world does n't have her equal .
Good friends , sweet friends , do n't let me stir you up to such a sudden mutiny . Those who have done this deed are honorable . I do n't know what private grudges they had that made them do it . They 're wise and honorable , and will no doubt give you reasons for it . I have n't come to steal your loyalty , friends . I 'm no orator , as Brutus is . I 'm only , as you know , a plain , blunt man who loved his friend , and the men who let me speak know this well . I have neither cleverness nor rhetorical skill nor the authority nor gesture nor eloquence nor the power of speech to stir men up . I just speak directly . I tell you what you already know . I show you sweet Caesar 's wounds -- poor , speechless mouths ! -- and make them speak for me . But if I were Brutus and Brutus were me , then I 'd stir you up , and install in each of Caesar 's wounds the kind of voice that could convince even stones to rise up and mutiny .
And you say he 's not jealous ?
Now I realize your brother tried to kill your father not just because your brother is an evil man , but because your father deserved it by being wicked himself .
You deformed , prematurely born , rooting hog , you evil birth defect , you insult to your mother 's womb , you hated disgrace to your father 's sperm , you disgusting --
Well , if you could have just an inch of better fortune than me , where would you like the improvement ?
Attack the breach in the city wall once more , dear friends , attack it once more -- or else let 's close it up with English corpses . In peacetime , nothing looks better in a man than restraint and humility . But when the battle trumpet blows in our ears , then it 's time to act like the tiger . With muscles taut and blood stirred up , hide your civilized nature under the guise of ugly rage . Lend your eyes a terrifying gleam and let them jut out from the portholes of the head like brass cannon . Make your brow jut out over your eyes like a frightening cliff over the wild and desolate ocean . Now grit your teeth and let your nostrils flare . Take a deep breath and draw on every impulse to its fullest strength . On , on , you noblest Englishmen , descended as you are from battle-tested fathers , fathers who , like so many Alexander the Greats , have fought in these regions from morning until night , sheathing their swords only when there was no one left to fight . Do n't dishonor your mothers ! Prove that the men you call your fathers did truly conceive you . Serve as an example to men of common birth and teach them how to fight . And you , good farmers , whose limbs were made in England , show us here the vigor of your upbringing . Prove you are worthy of your birth , which I do not doubt for a moment . For there is n't one of you so low-born that your eyes do n't shine with noble luster . I see you 're standing like greyhounds
Well said , Mr. Priest .
Your heart is big ; go ahead and weep . Grief seems to be contagious , for my eyes , seeing the tears in yours , began to fill . Is your master coming ?
Do n't ask me what I know .
I beg to differ , Alice . Listen : " de hand , de fangres , de nails , d' arma , de bilbow . "
If between the three of you this boy does n't end up hanged , the gallows will be cheated .
What 's your name ?
You idiot ! Five hundred ducats for a rope ?
You can judge for yourself what I mean . Your wife and brother led troops against me , claiming to be fighting in your name . They said they were acting for you .
I 've changed my mind about that .
Oh , my darling , make your arrangements and go !
Five years ! Wow , that 's a long time to be clinking beer mugs . But Francis , are you brave enough to play the coward with your contract ? To flash it your heels , as you run away ?
Goneril , you know how much I love you , but still I have to say --
What , are you trembling ? You 're all afraid of him ? Well , I ca n't blame you . You 're only human , after all , and mortals ca n't stand to look at the devil . Begone , you dreadful servant of hell . You only had power over my father - in - law 's body ; you ca n't have his soul . So get out .
Run through the list . As you name them I 'll describe them for you , and from my descriptions you can guess how I feel toward them .
Let 's bring this man to the duke , like a triumphant Roman conqueror . Put the deer 's horns on his head , like a victory branch . Do you have a song , forester , for this occasion ?
Yes .
, I remain Jack Falstaff to my friends , John to my brothers and sisters , and Sir John to all Europe . "
Stand aside , Captain Gower . I 'll reward treason with blows , I promise you .
I drink to your grace . If you knew how hard I 've worked to bring about this peaceful resolution , you 'd really drink up . But my love for you will be more apparent from now on .
I humbly say goodbye .
Well , say it in Welsh then , so I ca n't understand you .
Yes , madam .
Then you should be incredibly musical , for you 're the moodiest man alive . Lie still , you thief . Listen to the lady sing in Welsh .
Should I prick him on the list , Sir John ?
You and your heirs hereby receive this large third of our lovely kingdom , no smaller in area or value than what I gave Goneril . --Now , you , my youngest daughter , my joy , courted by the rich rulers of France and Burgundy , what can you tell me that will make me give you a bigger part of my kingdom than I gave your sisters ? Speak .
You lie , you disgusting tyrant . I 'll prove with my sword that I 'm not scared of you .
Dear Gertrude , please give us a moment alone . We 've secretly arranged for Hamlet to come here so that he can run into Ophelia . Her father and I , justifiably acting as spies , will hide in the room and observe Hamlet 's behavior , to determine whether it 's love that 's making him suffer .
That 's definitely too old . A woman should always pick an older man . That way she 'll adjust herself to what her husband wants , and the husband will be happy and faithful to her . Because however much we like to brag , boy , the truth is that we men change our minds a lot more than women do , and our desires come and go a lot faster than theirs .
That 's for to me to decide . You might have asked my opinion before saying something so rude . Edmund has led our forces well , and implemented my wishes -- and his close connection with me gives him the right to be considered your equal .
Yes , that 's the one .
Welcome , gentlemen . The ladies who do n't have corns on their toes will dance with you . Ha , my ladies , which of you will refuse to dance now ? Whichever of you acts shy , I 'll swear she has corns . Does that hit close to home ? Welcome , gentlemen . There was a time when I could wear a mask over my eyes and charm a lady by whispering a story in her ear . That time is gone , gone , gone . You are welcome gentlemen . Come on , musicians , play music . Make room in the hall . Make room in the hall . Shake a leg , girls . More light , you rascals . Flip over the tables and get them out of the way . And put the fire out -- it 's getting too hot in here . Ah , my man , this unexpected fun feels good . No , sit down , sit down , my good Capulet cousin . You and I are too old to dance . How long is it now since you and I last wore masks at a party like this ?
Who ? That pretty boy , Claudio ?
My dear sir !
You ca n't see my face because it 's dark out . Otherwise , you 'd see me blushing about the things you 've heard me say tonight . I would be happy to keep up good manners and deny the things I said . But forget about good manners . Do you love me ? I know you 'll say " yes , " and I 'll believe you . But if you swear you love me , you might turn out to be lying . They say Jove laughs when lovers lie to each other . Oh Romeo , if you really love me , say it truly . Or if you think it 's too easy and quick to win my heart , I 'll frown and play hard - to - get , as long as that will make you try to win me , but otherwise I would n't act that way for anything . In truth , handsome Montague , I like you too much , so you may think my behavior is loose . But trust me , gentleman , I 'll prove myself more faithful than girls who act coy and play hard - to - get . I should have been more standoffish , I confess , but you overheard me talking about the love in my heart when I did n't know you were there . So excuse me , and do not assume that because you made me love you so easily my love is n't serious .
No doubt they will face great opposition .
Come here , my friend . Where 's my master the king ?
Someone adored me once , too .
Look at me crying -- what a fool I am to cry at what makes me happy .
He was wrong to do that . There were enough Christians before -- as many of them as could stand to live near each other . All these new Christians will make the price of hogs go up . If we 're all pork - eaters , we wo n't be able to get our hands on a slice of bacon , even if we 've got the money for it .
No.
Please , all of you , stand up .
Call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin .
I 've only given the articles a cursory glance . If your Grace would kindly appoint some members of your council to sit with me once more and go over them more carefully , I will give my answer and acceptance right away .
I wish I were senseless , sir , so that I would n't feel your punches !
Helena , we 'll tell you about our secret plan . Tomorrow night , when the moon shines on the water and decorates the grass with tiny beads of pearly light , we plan to sneak out of Athens .
If this were a play , I 'd complain it was unrealistic .
You wo n't enjoy it much , I can tell you , the odds are so against this young man . Because he 's so young , I 've tried to discourage him , but he wo n't listen . Talk to him , ladies . See if you can persuade him .
You 're right , sir . What a wonderful time to be alive ! Sentences can be turned inside out so easily nowadays !
Eros , would you like to look through a window in Rome and watch your master marching in Caesar 's victory parade , his arms crossed and tied , his head bowed in submission , his face red from shame , while the chariot of triumphant Caesar precedes him , putting the final stamp to his humiliation ?
The name of Cassius gives credit to these corrupt actions , and so they go unpunished .
No , listen to it , Antony . Perhaps Fulvia is angry with you . Who knows , maybe the Fulvia has orders for you : " Do this , do that ; conquer that kingdom , liberate this one . Do it or we 'll condemn you . "
Poor Clarence abandoned his father - in - law , a Lancaster , and broke his own oath -- may Jesus forgive him ! --
Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France ?
These are nothing but jealous lies . Since the beginning of midsummer , my fairies and I have n't been able to meet anywhere to do our dances in the wind without being disturbed by you and your arguments . We have n't been able to meet on a hill or in a valley , in the forest or a meadow , by a pebbly fountain or a rushing stream , or on the beach by the ocean without you disturbing us . And because you interrupt us so that we ca n't dance for them , the winds have made fogs rise up out of the sea and fall down on the rivers so that the rivers flood , just to get revenge on you . So all the work that oxen and farmers have done in plowing the fields has been for nothing , because the unripe grain has rotted before it was ripe . Sheep pens are empty in the middle of the flooded fields , and the crows get fat from eating the dead bodies of infected sheep . All the fields where people usually play games are filled with mud , and you ca n't even see the elaborate mazes that people create in the grass , because no one walks in them anymore and they 've all grown over . It 's not winter here for the human mortals , so they 're not protected by the holy hymns and carols that they sing in winter . So the pale , angry moon , who controls the tides , fills the air with diseases . As a consequence of this bad weather and these bad moods the seasons have started to change . Cold frosts spread over the red roses , and the icy winter wears a crown of sweet summer flowers as some sick joke . Spring , summer , fertile autumn and angry winter have all changed places , and now the confused world does n't know which is which . And this is all because of our argument . We are responsible for this .
You can speak to me . I represent her . What do you want ?
Here , sir .
Indeed , you have wronged me , you liar . Do n't bother trying to intimidate me by putting your hand on your sword . I 'm not scared of you .
Then please , put off your eating for a little while I , like a mother doe , find my fawn and bring it food . There is a poor old man who , purely out of love , has limped after me for miles . He 's burdened by two debilitating evils -- age and hunger . Until he 's fed , I wo n't eat a thing .
A girl 's got a right to her opinions . Take your hand to a bar and put a drink in it .
Yes , revered Queen .
From Hamlet ? Who delivered them ?
That 's worse .
Send me away , my lord , but do n't kill me !
I do n't know . We were all having fun until just a minute ago ; we were as happy as a bride and groom taking off their clothes . But then the mood suddenly changed . It was as if something had driven the men insane and made them point their swords at one another . I do n't
I 'll show you how kind I am . Come with me to a notary and we 'll make it official . And let 's add a little clause just for a joke . If you do n't repay me on the day we agree on , in the place we name , for the sum of money fixed in our contract , your penalty will be a pound of your pretty flesh , to be cut off and taken out of whatever part of your body I like .
This guy will tell us everything . Actors ca n't keep a secret . They 'll tell all .
Now go to the door and stay there until I call for you .
Then the Jew must show you mercy .
Does the room I first collapsed in have a name ?
Yes , madam , twenty different messengers . Why did you send so many ?
You seem all right now . How did you get better ?
Sport ? Of what color ?
Here 's a dish of red apples for you .
Back then , I called you " a poor , imitation queen , " a badly reproduced copy of what I was , a pretty prologue for the tragedy that was about to follow , a woman who was lifted high only to be hurled down to hell , a mother only teased with two beautiful children , who would soon die . I said you were a mere shadow of what a queen once was , a garish target to be aimed at again and again , an empty symbol of dignity without any substance , a mockery of a queen only there to fill in a role . And I was right , because where 's your husband now ? Your brothers ? Your two sons ? Your source of joy ? Who kneels at your feet now and says , " God save the Queen ? " What noblemen are bowing and scraping to flatter you now ? And where is your throng of followers ? Once you 've laid out all of these losses , it 's clear what 's left . In place of a happy wife , there 's a miserable widow . Instead of a joyful mother , here 's a woman who cries at the mention of her children . For one who bestows favors on others , here 's one who has to beg for favors . Instead of a queen , we have a poor woman with a crown of worries . She who mocked me now is mocked by me . She who once ordered everyone about is now obeyed by no one . Your fortune has fallen . Now you have only the memory of what you were , which tortures you when you consider what you 've become . You once stole my position ; now you get to have the grief that goes with it . Now like an ox , you carry half my heavy burden of grief -- here , I 'll give you the rest . Farewell , York 's wife . Goodbye , queen of tragic misfortune . Your English sorrows will make me smile in France .
It 's only your name that 's my enemy . You 'd still be yourself even if you stopped being a Montague . What 's a Montague anyway ? It is n't a hand , a foot , an arm , a face , or any other part of a man . Oh , be some other name ! What does a name mean ? The thing we call a rose would smell just as sweet if we called it by any other name . Romeo would be just as perfect even if he was n't called Romeo . Romeo , lose your name . Trade in your name -- which really has nothing to do with you -- and take all of me in exchange .
He did n't ask questions , but answered ours at length .
Well , did you think about what I said ? You should know that it was Banquo who made your lives hell for so long , which you always thought was my fault . But I was innocent . I showed you the proof at our last meeting . I explained how you were deceived , how you were thwarted , the things that were used against you , who was working against you , and a lot of other things that would convince even a half-wit or a crazy person to say , " Banquo did it ! "
And he 's rubbed himself with perfume . Can you smell out his secret now ?
Poins !
Wrong , evil traitor . You 're appealing to a son who hates you . He was the one who revealed your treason to us . He 's too good to have any compassion for you .
Yes , but I did n't see anything wrong , and I heard every syllable they said .
Of all the mad matches , this is by far the craziest .
Everyone who does so is a traitor and should be hanged .
Do you really speak like such a gentleman ? I beg your pardon . I thought everything out here was wild , which is why I acted so stern and commanding . But whoever you are -- you who sit in the dark shade , losing track of time in this remote forest -- if you have ever seen better days or been to church or sat at a man 's table for a feast or wiped a tear from your eye , if you know what it is to pity and be pitied , let my kindness and nobility persuade you . With that hope , I 'll blush at my rudeness and put away my sword .
I 'm glad to see you , my cousin Mowbray . Good day to you , gentle Archbishop , and to you , Lord Hastings , and to all . Lord Archbishop , it was better to see you when worshippers -- called together by the church bell -- surrounded you to hear Biblical sermons than it is to see you here , in armor ; cheering a mob of rebels with your war drums , turning your words to weapons , and your life into death . When a man is close to the King 's heart , and grows strong under the King 's protection , only to turn against him -- alas ! What evils that man will unleash , hidden from view by the King 's own reputation ! This is exactly how it is with you , Lord Bishop . Who has n't heard how profound your religious knowledge is ? To us , you were our representative in God 's own parliament . To us , you might as well have been
Oh , you can tell me to jump off the battle posts of any tower , or to walk down the crime-ridden streets of a slum . Or tell me to sit in a field full of poisonous snakes . Chain me up with wild bears . Hide me every night in a morgue full of dead bodies with wet , smelly flesh and skulls without jawbones . Or tell me to climb down into a freshly dug grave , and hide me with a dead man in his tomb . All those ideas make me tremble when I hear them named . But I will do them without fear or dread in order to be a pure wife to my sweet love .
You should know , my loving lord , I 've heard that the marquess Dorset has fled to Brittany , to the earl of Richmond .
Please , give it to me . I know a place where wild thyme blooms , and oxlips and violets grow . It 's covered over with luscious honeysuckle , sweet muskroses and sweetbrier .
There 's one of Daphne running through the woods , her legs so scratched by thorns that Apollo himself would weep at the sight . You 'll swear the blood and tears are real .
The King 's fair dealings please me . He wants to ensure that his old companions are provided for , but he banishes them until they can behave more properly and presentably .
As I told you before , I 'm enslaved to a tyrant , a magician who tricked me with magic spells and took my island from me .
Are you done yet ?
Where is the villain , Edmund ?
You sent for me , sir ? Is there something you 'd like me to do for you ?
Why stay when love tells you to go ?
It 's my duty , sir .
At Berkley castle .
He does n't have children . All my pretty little children ? Did you say all ? Oh , that bird from hell ! All of them ? What , all my children and their mother dead in one fell swoop ?
When was your request to see the King denied ? How has the king harmed you ? What lord in the King 's court has been sent out to do you wrong ? And why would you put your holy stamp of approval on an illegal uprising and give religious blessing to a violent civil war ?
Will junkyard dogs attack the Muses , goddesses of poetry ? Will my good news be thwarted this way ? Then Pistol , go ahead and plead with the Furies , the goddesses of revenge .
Jailer , watch out for this one . Do n't try to convince me to feel sorry for him . This is the fool who lent out money without charging interest . Jailer , keep an eye on him .
Who 's to be buried in it ?
There may be a time for everything , but no man who has gone bald naturally can get his hair back .
This precious little guy is putty in your hands , Sir Toby .
Enobarbus , Antony has sent you all your treasure , with generous gifts besides . The messenger arrived on my watch and is unloading his mules at your tent .
I 'm here , my lord .
We 'll burn Brutus 's house .
I would n't dream of opposing such an obviously promising idea . Let 's shake on it . If you go through with this plan , from now on we 'll be brothers , and our love for one another will guide our actions .
Mark Antony , should we give the signal to attack ?
Go away , now .
She says your Worship thinks you can make her into some sort of plaything .
Yes , my lord .
Damn , kinsman Percy ! How angry you make my father - in - law !
The lord of York is always a bit perverse in his chatter . But , uncle , you know how to bear with him .
I beg you , daughter , do n't make me crazy . I wo n't bother you . We 'll never see each other again . But you 're still my child , my flesh and blood -- or rather you 're a disease in my flesh , a disease I still have to call my own . You 're a pustule , a sore , a tumor digesting my bloodline . But I 'll stop rebuking you . You 'll feel shame when the time is right , and I do n't urge you to be ashamed now . I wo n't beg the gods to punish you , or caution you to fear their judgment . Become a better
She 's talking about her dead father .
Very much so . It 's terrifying .
Perfect .
So you do n't like my kidding around ! I 'll kid you to death , and then I 'll put down my knife . Answer me like men .
It 's only going to make you sad , Monsieur Jaques .
And do you mean what you 're saying , Gratiano ?
I will , sir .
You 're the liar , you big fat monkey . I wish my courageous master would kill you . I 'm not lying .
Or it 's bottomless , at least : pour affection in one end , and it runs out the other .
Please , give my regards to your mother , Mrs. Peapod , and your father , Mr. Peapod . Good Mr. Peaseblossom , I 'd like to get to know you better too . --And you , may I ask what your name is , sir ?
Was it you that he rescued ?
Halt !
Inside the little rind of this weak flower , there is both poison and powerful medicine . If you smell it , you feel good all over your body . But if you taste it , you die . There are two opposite elements in everything , in men as well as in herbs -- good and evil .
This is Decius Brutus .
Come on , Sir Andrew , there 's nothing you can do about it . The gentleman insists on fighting a round with you , for the sake of his honor . The rules of dueling say he has to . But as a gentleman and a soldier he 's promised me he wo n't hurt you . Come on , get ready .
Some villain has told lies about me .
You make it sound as if I 'd deny it .
Now I must return to the wedding .
To hell with your soul !
So will we all .
What are you doing ? My friends , remember that you 're my guests here . Do n't play any nasty tricks on me .
Maybe I should cut off my left hand and swear I lost the ring defending it .
What can I do for your highness ?
Yes , good fool .
And what 's her story ?
I 'll tell you before you have to ask me again . I have been feasting with my enemy . Suddenly someone wounded me with love and was wounded with love by me . You have the sacred power to cure both of us . I carry no hatred , holy man , because my request will benefit my enemy .
Yes , I did , my lord .
Or tell me , my sweet love , what you 'd like to eat .
I will , captain . Farewell .
No , lady .
They 're well too .
How do you know he loves her ?
Go to Clifton ; I 'll go to Sir Nicholas Gawsey .
And mine say a hundred and forty .
Hang on a minute -- who are you ?
So I can sleep away the time while my Antony is gone .
Leave me alone , Desdemona , go away !
Oh , if she loves her brother this much , think how she 'll love me when I finally win her over and make her forget all her other attachments ! Her mind and heart will be ruled by one man alone -- me ! Take me to the garden . I need a beautiful place to sit and think about love .
You 've judged wrong already . I mean , you 'll be in charge of hanging thieves , and become a superb hangman .
Nothing to be worried about . What else ?
Quiet , you stupid fool . I found them on a tree .
Come , firebrands , over here ! To Brutus 's , to Cassius 's , let 's burn them all . Some of you go to Decius 's house and some to Casca 's . Some to Ligarius 's . Go !
Get going ! Our side looks like it will win today .
Oh , I 've read that . That 's not holy , it 's heresy . Do you have anything else to say ?
If you keep on the way you 've been going , you 'll kill yourself . There 's no point in adding to your grief .
God bless you . Have a safe trip .
What about it ?
This dream has been interpreted all wrong . It was a good and lucky vision . Your statue spouting blood through many holes , in which many smiling Romans bathed , means that you 'll provide great Rome with sustaining blood , and that great men will strive to get some token of approval from your holy blood . This is what Calphurnia 's dream means .
Did we , my lord ?
I 'd forgotten about you --Emilia , wait a moment , let me draw the curtains . Where are you ?
Speak more softly , princes : the King is recovering .
Stand close together , in case someone loyal to Caesar tries to --
I won the former Mistress Quickly and I 'll keep her as my only wife , and --Damn it ! That 's enough . Come on !
That our grandmother 's soul could end up inhabiting a bird .
Will you dine with me tomorrow ?
I do , sir .
For three months , hmmm .
What , talking with a priest , Hastings ? Your friends at Pomfret , they 're the ones who need a priest . You , on the other hand , do n't have any confessions you have to make .
Who wishes that ? My cousin Westmoreland ? No , my dear cousin . If we are slated to die , the fewer , the better for our country , and if we 're slated to live , the fewer men , the greater the share of honor for each of us . In God 's name , I beg you not to wish for one more man . By God , I am not selfish when it comes to money : I do n't care who eats at my expense . It does n't bother me when people borrow my clothing --I do n't care about these concrete things . But if it is a sin to be selfish about honor , I am the most guilty soul alive . No , my cousin , do n't wish that even one man who is now in England were here instead . By God , I would n't lose as much honor as a single man more would cost me , I think -- not even if it meant giving up my best hope for victory . Oh , do not wish one more ! Instead , make this known throughout the army : whoever has no spirit for this fight , let him depart . He will be given safe conduct and money for his passage home . We would not want to die in the company of a man who fears to die with us . This day is called the Feast of Saint Crispian : he who lives to see this day out and comes home safe will stand tall when this day is named and raise himself up at the mention of Crispian . He who survives this day and lives to see old age shall yearly entertain his neighbors on the eve , saying , " Tomorrow is Saint Crispin 's Day . " He 'll roll up his sleeve and show his scars , saying , " I got these wounds on St. Crispin 's Day . " Old men forget . But these men will remember every detail of what they did today long after they 've forgotten everything else . And as the wine flows , our names , familiar as household words , will be invoked again : Harry the King , Bedford and Exeter , Warwick and Talbot , Salisbury and Gloucester . Good men will tell their sons this story and the Feast of St. Crispin will never
Come here , sir . It may be honest , but it 's never wise to bring bad news . You can give good news in many ways , but let bad news interpret itself as you tell it .
It means being faithful and ready to serve , just like I am for Phoebe .
He was kind to me and took my side in the fight . But then he said strange things to me . He might be insane . I do n't know what else it could be .
I 'd get scared every time I blew on my soup to cool it , thinking of how a strong wind could wipe out my ships . Every time I glanced at the sand in an hourglass I 'd imagine my ships wrecked on sandbars . I 'd think of dangerous rocks every time I went to church and saw the stones it was made of . If my ship brushed up against rocks like that , its whole cargo of spices would be dumped into the sea . All of its silk shipments would be sent flying into the roaring waters . In one moment I 'd go bankrupt . Who would n't get sad thinking about things like that ? It 's obvious . Antonio is sad because he 's so worried about his cargo .
What did he tell you , Ophelia ?
Do n't worry , my father 's kinder than his words just now make him sound . What he said did n't sound like him at all .
Yes , and he 's sorely upset about his brother , Lord Scroop , whom Bolingbroke put to death in Bristol . I 'm not merely speculating ; I 'm telling you what I know for a fact has been considered , plotted , and set into motion . They 're only waiting now for the right moment to strike .
I did n't think I would ever fight Pompey . He 's shown me unusual deference lately , and I must repay his favors or risk a reputation for ingratitude . That done , I can turn against him .
Lock the doors , my lord . It 's a wild night . Regan gives good advice . Come in out of the storm .
I 'll have to ask you some questions , madam . Please answer , my good little student .
From my kind uncle , who I know will give it to me , especially as it 's not worth much .
Now a noble heart is breaking . Good night , sweet prince . May hosts of angels sing you to sleep . --Why are those drums approaching ?
Oh , yes , Benedick has returned and is as cheerful as ever .
Promise me you 'll let me live , and I 'll confess the truth .
Gloucester 's eyes ?
Tell him what you want , and I 'll back you up .
The world 's huge . It 's a big prize for such a small sin .
Were you drunk when you seemed so hopeful before ? Have you gone to sleep and woken up green and pale in fear of this idea ? From now on this is what I 'll think of your love . Are you afraid to act the way you desire ? Will you take the crown you want so badly , or will you live as a coward , always saying " I ca n't " after you say " I want to " ? You 're like the poor cat in the old story .
What 's this song ?
Give me your hand . Let me take your pulse .
What did I promise , my dear ?
What 's the matter ?
You 've heard a lot .
Yes , I forgot -- three months . You told me that . Now then , about your guarantee . Let me see -- but listen , Antonio , I thought you said you do n't lend or borrow with interest .
Hear me out , my lord . Why do you need twenty-five knights , or ten , or even five , when you 're staying in a house with a staff of double that at your service ?
Good night , good doctor .
I 've said too much to someone with a heart of stone . I 've foolishly jeopardized my honor and reputation . I hate myself for behaving that way , but I just had to , and no criticism could have stopped me .
My lord , that 's my daughter asleep on the ground over there , and this is Lysander here , and this is Demetrius , and this is Helena , old Nedar 's daughter . I do n't understand why they 're all here together .
Oh , Kent , what could I ever do to become as good as you are ? I wo n't live long enough , and all my efforts will fail me .
Out of the frying pan and into the fire -- from a tyrant duke to a tyrant brother ! But , oh , heavenly Rosalind !
So do we .
You ca n't say I did it . Do n't shake your bloody head at me .
What 's your point ? Did he charge interest ?
I hit hard when I 'm angry .
My husband is my lord and my lord is my husband . For I am your all - obedient wife .
I 'll listen to Brutus .
I agree because I 'm poor , not because I want to .
Would your Honor like to try this dried fruit ?
What 's that supposed to mean ?
In the meantime I wrote to Romeo and told him to come here on this awful night to help remove her from her temporary grave when the sleeping potion wore off . But the man who carried my letter , Friar John , was held up by an accident . Last night he gave me the letter back . So I came here alone at the hour when she was supposed to wake up . I came to take her out of her family 's tomb , hoping to hide her in my cell until I could make contact with Romeo . But by the time I got here , just a few minutes before Juliet woke up , Paris and Romeo were already dead . She woke up , and I asked her to come out of the tomb with me and endure this tragedy with patience . But then a noise sent me running scared from the tomb . She was too desperate to come with me , and it seems that she killed herself . I know all of this . And her Nurse knows about the marriage too . If any part of this tragedy is my fault , let my old life be sacrificed and let me suffer the most severe punishment .
I know where I 'll wear this dagger , then . I 'll kill myself to save myself from slavery . In suicide , gods make the weak strong . In suicide , gods allow tyrants to be defeated . No stony tower , no brass walls , no airless dungeon , no iron chains can contain a strong mind . But if a man becomes weary of these obstacles , he can always kill himself . Let everyone beware : I can shake off the tyranny that now oppresses me whenever I choose .
Fulvia is dead .
Oh , find him ! Give this ring to my true knight ! And tell him to come here to say his last goodbye .
Messala !
What a sad sight !
Why , she 's a lamb , a dove , a child compared to him ! Picture this : when the priest asked Katherine if she would have him , he answered , " Hell , yes ! " and swore so loud that the priest drops the prayer book . Everyone froze , and as the priest stooped to pick it up again the lunatic bridegroom smacked him so hard that the priest and book went flying ! Then he said , " Now pick them up -- if anyone dares . "
Something about Cyprus . I think it 's important . The warships have sent a dozen messages tonight , one after the other , and many of the senators have been awakened and are at the Duke 's already . They 're very anxious for you to get there . When you were n't at home , the Senate sent out three different search parties to find you .
We can be happy that things have been resolved so agreeably . And I see you survived your time in Egypt .
It 's all the same . I 'll be a harsh master to them . After I fight the men , I 'll be nice to the women --I 'll cut off their heads .
I 'll always be loyal to you , sir .
That 's a deal . Now let me tell you , Casca , I have already convinced some of the noblest Romans to join me in an honorable but dangerous mission . And I know that by now they 're waiting for me on the porch outside Pompey 's theater . We 're meeting on this fearful night because no one is out on the streets . The sky tonight looks bloody , fiery , and terrible , just like the work we have to do .
And Cassius too .
You 're bleeding a lot .
I 'm afraid he will . Here comes Catesby again .
Does anyone here know who I am ? I 'm not Lear . Does Lear walk and talk like this ? Where are his eyes ? Either his mind is losing its grip or his judgment is screwy . --Hey , am I awake ? I do n't think so . Who can tell me who I am ?
It 's too late .
I do n't notice you limping .
It 's yours .
What do you say , your Highness , about my just request ?
Go open the curtains and show the different boxes to the prince .
I do n't know .
Farewell . Adieu .
villages from Shrewsbury to the place where I now stand : in front of the worm - eaten , dilapidated castle of Northumberland , Hotspur 's father , who lies within and pretends to be sick . The messengers are coming hot and heavy , and every single one of them will report nothing but what he 's heard from me . Straight from Rumor , they bring pretty tales of false comfort , which are far worse than truthful news of misfortune .
Now I 'll ask Cassio about Bianca , a prostitute who sells her body for food and clothes . She 's crazy about Cassio . That 's the whore 's curse , to seduce many men , but to be seduced by one . Whenever he talks about her he ca n't stop laughing .
I can only repeat what I 've said before . My daughter is still very young . She 's not even fourteen years old . Let 's wait two more summers before we start thinking she 's ready to get married .
She says you 're going to marry her . Are you ?
Do n't be offended . I do n't completely distrust you . I do think Scotland is sinking under Macbeth 's oppression . Our country weeps , it bleeds , and each day a fresh cut is added to her wounds . I also think there would be many people willing to fight for me . The English have promised me thousands of troops . But even so , when I have Macbeth 's head under my foot , or stuck on the end of my sword , then my poor country will be plagued by worse evil than it was before . It will suffer worse and in more ways than ever under the reign of the king who follows Macbeth .
No , not a sad song . It 's not the right time to play .
Yes , Petruchio .
I 'll pray for the god of sadness to protect you , sir . And I hope your tailor will make you an outfit out of fabric that changes color , because your mind is like an opal that changes colors constantly . Men as wonderfully changeable as you are should all go drifting on the sea , where they can do whatever comes their way , and go wherever the current takes them . Those are the men whose trips are always successful . Goodbye .
Or to get us all hanged .
Come on , do you think I ca n't recognize you by your excellent wit ? Can a good thing hide itself ? Be quiet , you are Antonio . A man 's virtues will always show themselves , and that 's the end of that .
A crown was offered to him , and he pushed it away with the back of his hand , like this -- and then the people started shouting .
Oh , it 's horrible , horrible . I thought the clouds were talking to me , the winds were singing to me , and the thunder , like an awful organ pipe , roared Prospero 's name . It sang about my crimes . Because of my crimes my son is dead on the ocean floor . I 'll go join him there , going down deeper than any anchor ever sank , and lie with him dead in the mud .
I will , my Hermia .
And what am I supposed to do in Illyria ? My brother is in heaven . Or maybe there 's a chance he did n't drown . --What do you think , sailors ?
A common slave -- you 'd know him if you saw him -- held up his left hand , which flamed and burned like twenty torches together . And yet his hand was immune to the fire and did n't get burned . Also --I 've kept my sword unsheathed since I saw this -- in front of the Capitol I met a lion who looked at me and strutted by without bothering to attack me . And there were a hundred spooked women huddled together in fear who swore they saw men on fire walk up and down the streets .
Well , niece , I hope that I will see you married one day .
Get him to bed and make sure his wounds are treated .
I 'm very sick , too .
Farewell .
How can you stand there shamelessly talking about me and Hippolyta , when you know that I know about your love for Theseus ? Were n't you the one who made him desert Perigouna in the middle of the night , right after he 'd raped her ? And were n't you the one who made him cheat on all of his other girlfriends , like Aegles , Ariadne , and Antiopa ?
Yes , on his front .
Prince of Wales , I 'd support that idea , except that there are countless reasons why I should n't . No , Worcester , no . I love my subjects , even those who have mistakenly followed your nephew 's lead . If they accept our pardon , then he , you , and they will all be my friends again , and I 'll be theirs . Tell your nephew this , and bring back his answer . But if he does n't surrender , he will be rebuked and harshly punished . So , be gone . I do n't want to hear anymore from you now . I offer a fair deal ; I advise you to accept it .
Goodbye , my sweet lord . --Goodbye , my sister .
Le Roy ? That 's a Cornish name . Are you with a Cornish company ?
I 'm going far enough that I 'll be riding from now until dinner . Unless my horse goes faster than expected , I will be back an hour or two after sunset .
What are you , that you walk out so late at night , looking like the dead king of Denmark when he dressed for battle ? By God , I order you to speak .
I 've never known any woman or seen a woman 's face -- except my own in the mirror . And I 've never met any men besides you and my father . I have no idea what people look like in other places , but I swear by my modesty , which I value above everything else , that I 'd never want any companion in the world but you . I ca n't even imagine one . But listen to me chattering like crazy , and father always told me not to .
Help me , ladies ! Oh , Antony is more furious than Telamon , who killed himself in a jealous rage . The wild boar of Thessaly , which the goddess Diana sent to punish King Caledon for neglecting her sacrifices , did n't foam at the mouth as much as Antony does now .
I 'm not a paid messenger , my lady . Keep your money . It 's my master who 's not getting the reward he deserves , not me . I hope you fall in love with a man whose heart is hard as a rock and who treats your love like a big joke , just like you 've done . Goodbye , you beautiful , cruel woman .
Really , niece , you 'll never get a husband if you keep saying such harsh things about people .
And you get lost too , you old dog .
Oh yes , you spoke , my lord , but total nonsense . For instance , you 'd be lying here in this comfortable room , but you 'd say that you were being thrown out of some tavern and would shout at a landlady about how you were going to take her to court for cheating you . Sometimes you would call out for one Cicely Hacket .
It 's silly to live when life is torture . The only cure is death .
Sister , be happy in my unhappiness . --Sir , I will humbly obey you . I 'll take comfort in my books and music , reading and practicing my instruments .
Do n't push it . Just looking at you makes me sick .
Here 's more insanity for us .
He 's tougher than the Prince of Cats . He does everything by the book . He fights like you sing at a recital , paying attention to time , distance , and proportion . He takes the proper breaks : one , two , and the third in your heart . He 's the butcher who can hit any silk button . A master of duels . He 's a gentleman from the finest school of fencing . He knows how to turn any argument into a swordfight . Prince of Cats passado -- the forward thrust -- the punto reverso -- the backhand thrust -- and the hai -- the thrust that goes straight through .
I am ready for you . You take the bill and I 'll take your yardstick . Do your worst !
I do n't doubt your wisdom . Each of you , give me your bloody hand . First , Marcus Brutus , I shake your hand . Next , Caius Cassius , I take your hand . Now , Decius Brutus , yours . Now yours , Metellus . Yours , Cinna . And yours , my brave Casca . Last but not least , yours , good Trebonius . You are all gentlemen -- alas , what can I say ? Now that I 've shaken your hands , you 'll take me for either a coward or a flatterer -- in either case , my credibility stands on slippery ground . It 's true that I loved you , Caesar -- nothing could be truer . If your spirit is looking down upon us now , it must hurt you more than even your death to see your Antony making peace -- shaking the bloody hands of your enemies -- in front of your corpse . If I had as many eyes as you have wounds , and they wept as fast as your wounds stream blood -- even that would be more becoming than joining your enemies in friendship . Forgive me , Julius ! On this very spot you were hunted down , like a brave deer . And here you fell , where your hunters are now standing . The spot is marked by your death and stained by your blood . Oh world , you were the forest to this deer , and this deer , oh world , was your dear . Now you lie here , stabbed by many princes !
I have to join Lorenzo and the others , but we 'll visit you at supper time .
Probably because my cheeks ' roses needed rain , which I could easily give them with all the tears in my eyes .
I think King Harry is strong , so the rest of you princes make sure to arm yourselves to meet him with strength . His ancestors got their first taste of blood in battle with us , and he is born of that warlike strain that haunted us on our home ground . Reflect on the battle of Crecy , where , to our everlasting shame , all our princes were taken prisoner by the Prince of Wales , he whom they called Edward the Black Prince . Remember how his mountain - bred father , standing high on a mountain ,
You 're sure the handwriting is your brother 's ?
I must be ill --I do n't think I can speak in any other tune .
No , let 's not swear an oath . If the sad faces of our fellow men , the suffering of our own souls , and the corruption of the present time are n't enough to motivate us , let 's break it off now and each of us go back to bed . Then we can let this ambitious tyrant continue unchallenged until each of us is killed at his whim . But if we have reasons that are strong enough to ignite cowards into action and to make weak women brave -- and I think we do -- then , countrymen , what else could we possibly need to spur us to action ? What bond do we need other than that of discreet Romans who have said what they 're going to do and wo n't back down ? And what oath do we need other than that we honest men have told each other that this will happen or we will die trying ? Swearing is for priests , cowards , overly cautious men , feeble old people , and those long-suffering weaklings who welcome abuse . Only men whom you would n't trust anyway would swear oaths , and for the worst reasons . Do n't spoil the justness and virtue of our endeavor nor weaken our own irrepressible spirits by thinking that we need a binding oath , when the blood that every noble Roman contains within him would be proven bastard 's blood if he broke the smallest part of any promise he had made .
And now , my lords , off to France . This invasion will be as glorious to you as it is to me . I have no doubt that it will be a swift and successful war , since God so graciously exposed this dangerous plot . I 'm now sure that every bump in the road has been removed . Let 's go forth , dear countrymen . Our strength is God . Let 's get going . We 're off to sea , banners flying . I 'll be no king of England if I 'm not also king of France .
Well , it seems like good news . A servant of mine overheard the Prince and Claudio talking as they walked through my orchard . The Prince said that he is in love with Hero , your daughter , and that he is going to tell her so at the dance tonight . If he she wants to marry him , too , he 's going to find you and ask for her hand immediately .
Oh , that 's the man who planned the whole thing ; I recognize his voice , Bardolph . -- What 's going on ?
Hang on , sir ! Just a moment . They 're both in love . But I need to cause a little trouble between them , or else they 'll never appreciate the value of their love . I need a word with you , sir . I order you to listen to me . You 're calling yourself by a name that does n't belong to you . You 've come onto this island as a spy , to snatch it away from me --I 'm the rightful lord of it .
How low we can fall , Horatio . Is n't it possible to imagine that the noble ashes of Alexander the Great could end up plugging a hole in a barrel ?
Ca n't he pay back the money ?
There is no world for me outside the walls of Verona , except purgatory , torture , and hell itself . So to be banished from Verona is like being banished from the world , and being banished from the world is death .
Our side shows all the signs of certain defeat , which appear like the symptomatic sores of the plague . Right in the middle of the fight , just when the battle could have gone either way -- actually we had a slight advantage -- that immoral Egyptian nag --May she die of leprosy ! -- suddenly became frightened , and turned her ships around and fled .
A ship you sent me to find , to book passage out of here .
I was sort of hoping you would say no to Beatrice , so that I could have smacked you out of your single life and made you a double dealer . Which you 'll probably turn into anyway , if my cousin Beatrice does n't keep you on a short leash .
Lovell , go as fast as you can to Doctor Shaw . Go to Friar Penker . Both of you , tell these men to meet me in less than an hour at Baynard 's Castle .
I will mourn Hero tonight .
You did not seek it ? Then how did it come here ?
No more talking . I 've got my answer .
No , my friends , do n't please fate by giving it your sorrow as well . If we welcome our punishment , we punish it right back by seeming to take it lightly . Pick me up . I have often led you , now you must carry me , my good friends -- and take my thanks for everything .
Please , do n't speak to him . He 's getting worse and worse . Talk makes him crazy . Everybody , please leave right now . Do n't bother exiting in the order of your rank , but just leave right away .
That 's how it was with Henry the Sixth , who was crowned in Paris when he was only nine months old .
No , by Saint Jamy , I 'll bet you a penny ! A man and his horse Are n't the same person -- Not that there 's much difference .
I was going to ask you that question .
Madam , how are you liking this play ?
I think this night is just like sick daylight . It only looks a little paler . It looks like a day when the sun is hidden .
First , which man do you think is most desertless to be leader of the watch ?
One more thing , sir . Our watch , sir , as you know , has comprehended two auspicious persons . We 'd like for you to examine them this morning .
He 's afraid to come in .
I 'd believe it even if oracles told me differently .
Are you a herald , Kate ? Put me in your books !
Truly , madam , I do n't hear anything .
Rebellion was standing in front of him , and he bumped into it .
I pray to God you do .
Yes , I swear .
This is the place . There , where the torch is burning .
That does n't matter . You 'll wear a mask , and you can make your voice as high as you want to .
What kind of devil are you to torture me like this ? This is as bad as the tortures of hell . Has Romeo killed himself ? Just say " Yes " and I will turn more poisonous than the snake with the evil eye . I will no longer be myself if you tell me Romeo killed himself . If he 's been killed , say " Yes . " If not , say " No. " These short words will determine my joy or my pain .
-- to have a stupid wife .
Look in on me , and talk with me , or I 'll attack even without a weapon .
What do you think ?
We do n't know .
I 'll frown at them as they pass by , and they can react however they want .
Normans , nothing more than bastard Normans , Norman bastards ! I hope I die ! If they march along unopposed , I will sell my dukedom for a sodden , filthy farm in that craggy isle of Albion .
Okay then , pretty boy . Whey you become king , do n't let those of us who work at night be blamed for wasting daylight by sleeping through it . Give us fancy names : " Servants of the Moon Goddess Diana ; " " Gentlemen of Shadows ; " " Lunar Laborers . " Make people admire us for being well behaved . After all , we 're governed by the same force that governs the tides -- the pale and cool moon , who lights our way as we sneak around .
Let Antony be purged from my life forever -- but no , do n't let him , Charmian . Even though half of him is like a Gorgon , the other half is like Mars . Ask Alexas to also ask him how tall she is . Feel sorry for me , Charmian , but do n't talk to me . Help me get to my bedroom .
That 's treason !
The Constable of France .
You 're right . That 's why girls get pushed up against walls -- they 're weak . So what I 'll do is push the Montague men into the street and the Montague women up against the wall .
Tell me , are you and Ensign Pistol friends again yet ?
Retreat ! We 've advanced too far . Caesar himself is in trouble and there are more adversaries than we expected .
I love you dearly , Ariel . Do n't come near till you hear me call you .
He 's very handsome .
You fell from the terrifying top of this chalk cliff . Look for yourself -- see the top of the cliff way up there ? The lark shrilly singing up there is too far away to be heard . Just look .
Why , that 's my dainty Ariel singing now . I 'll miss you , Ariel , but you 'll be free . --Yes , you will , yes . --Go to the king 's ship in your invisible state . There you 'll find the sailors asleep below deck . Find the Master and
Your head , my lord ?
I have n't heard you say a hundred words yet , but I recognize the sound of your voice . Are n't you Romeo ? And are n't you a Montague ?
Your mother .
No , my lord , do n't name her sinful acts or speak of them ! There 's no way to describe them without offending everyone here . Pretty lady , I 'm much ashamed of your shocking behavior .
Yes , I 'll grant you that .
Easy , Petruchio . I 'll vouch for Grumio . It 's terrible -- you two fighting ! Faithful , funny old Grumio ! You guys go way back ! Now , my dear friend , what lucky wind blows you in from Verona ?
Well then , your uncle and the Prince and Claudio have been deceived . They swore you did .
Will this give me an opportunity to make some mischief ? Who is this fool who wants all the fuss of marriage ?
No , I 'm telling you , put on this robe and beard . Make him think you 're Sir Topas the priest . Be quick . Meanwhile , I 'll get Sir Toby .
Please , sir , do n't trouble yourself .
No , let us in !
I 'm dying to see the prince . I hope he 's grown a lot since I last saw him .
Have my brother - in - law 's troops been mobilized ?
He can knock till it hurts .
What 's that ?
If you do n't want to break my heart , then say goodbye to me right now . I like you very much . I 'm really about to cry , just like my mother would do . I 'm going to Count Orsino 's court . Goodbye .
No thank you , my lord . It 's very hot .
My dear lady --
Is it possible ?
And like I am for Rosalind .
Here .
Are any women eating with him ?
Can I count on you if I wait to see what happens ?
Oh , how can the sides of my body hold in my grieving heart?- -How did my messenger wind up in the stocks ?
Though this island may appear desolate --
Well , the time has come . This is the moment for you to listen hard and pay close attention . Can you remember the time before you came to live in this shack ? I doubt it , since you were n't even three at the time .
I would n't need to if you were acting nobly . Tell me , Brutus , as your wife , are n't I supposed to be told the secrets that concern you ? Am I part of you only in a limited sense --I get to have dinner with you , sleep with you , and talk to you sometimes ?
I saw you at Count Orsino 's recently .
Ha ! That was a fun night . Is Jane Nightwork still alive ?
Why do you ask ? Have you heard something of her in your letters ?
Most noble sir , stand up . The Queen is coming . She 's weak and will die unless you comfort her .
Oh God ! I ca n't believe that right is overcoming might ! Well , challenges build character .
And you 're not loyal , like us .
I 'll debate this with you later , and then I 'll teach you to listen more carefully . Go to Adriana , you scoundrel , and quickly . Give her this key , and tell her that there 's money in the desk that 's covered with a Turkish tapestry . Have her send it to me . Tell her that I 've been arrested and the money will be my bail . Hurry , you slave ! Go ! Officer , take me to prison until the money comes .
My son has worn me down by asking me so many times . In the end I grudgingly consented . I beg you , let him go .
Me too -- to see how far the mischief went .
Robin Starveling , the tailor ?
Has anyone ever courted a woman in this state of mind ? And has anyone ever won her , as I 've done ? I 'll get her , but I wo n't keep her long . What ! I , who killed her husband and his father , managed to win her over when her hatred for me was strongest , while she 's swearing her head off , sobbing her eyes out , and the bloody corpse , proof of why she should hate me , right in front of her ? She has God , her conscience , and my own acts against me , and I have nothing on my side but the ugly devil and my false looks . And yet , against all odds , I win her over ! Ha ! Has she already forgotten her brave husband , Prince Edward , whom I stabbed on the battlefield three months ago in my anger ? The world will never again produce such a sweet , lovely gentleman . He was graced with lots of natural gifts , he was young , valiant , wise , and no doubt meant to be king .
Yes , if your memories do you no good .
Amen to that , lady .
What 's going on ? Do we have devils on the island ? Are you playing tricks on me by showing me savages and uncivilized men from the Indies , ha ? I did n't survive a shipwreck so I could be scared of your four legs now . I 'll never run away from any ordinary man who walks on four legs like the rest of us .
I assure you , sir , the tender love I feel in my heart is stronger than the sexual passions stirring down below .
Look around you , Caesar . Oh , just see what happens after the pageantry is over ! What is mine will be yours now . If we were to change places , what is yours would be mine . Seleucus ' ingratitude makes me wild . Oh , you slave ! I ca n't trust you any more than a prostitute . What are you doing ? Cringing away ? I 'll give you a good reason to cringe , I promise you . I 'll scratch out your eyes , even if they could fly . You slave ! Soulless villain ! Dog ! Oh , that was unbelievably low !
And now Oberon and Titania refuse to speak to each other , or meet each other anywhere -- neither in the forest nor on the plain , nor by the river nor under the stars . They always argue , and the little fairies get so frightened that they hide in acorn cups and wo n't come out .
So , who 's this girl , the one you said you were going to take a special trip for ? You promised to tell me .
Well , brighter lights always dim the smaller ones . A governor shines as brightly as a king until a king is near by , and the governor suddenly looks like a nobody . Music , listen !
I do n't know , sir .
You unwashed farmworker ! You bastard workhorse drudge ! Did n't I tell you to meet me outside and bring these morons with you ?
Now Margaret 's curse has fallen on our heads , for standing by and doing nothing when Richard stabbed her son .
Oh , it 's a sad day ! He 's dead . He 's dead . He 's dead ! We 're ruined , lady , we 're ruined ! What an awful day ! He 's gone . He 's been killed . He 's dead !
Here she comes , the brilliant fool - catcher .
What kind of woman is she ?
In that case it 's your imagination that 's interesting , not the play .
Who should begin ?
I would rather get passion from drink than from love .
Did they make you the messenger ?
And did they ?
Maud , Bridget , Marian , Ciceley , Gillian , Ginn !
Sure , to a cheap host and an even cheaper guest . But look , even if my dishes are poor , eat them with my best wishes . You may come across better food , but not a warmer welcome . What 's this ? My door is locked . Tell them to let us in .
Sure , kill the doctor who 's trying to cure you and pay your disease . Take back your gift to Albany and Cornwall . If you do n't , then as long as I 'm able to speak I 'll keep telling you you 've done a bad , bad thing .
This man 's been around royalty . He should recognize it when he sees it .
Running back and forth , spraying the flames with her tears , a cloth on that head where a crown had recently sat and a blanket instead of a robe wrapped around her body , which has withered from childbearing : anyone seeing her in such a state , no matter how spiteful he was , would have cursed Lady Luck for bringing her down like that . If the gods had seen her while she watched Pyrrhus chopping her husband into bits , the terrible cry she uttered would have made all the eyes in heaven burn with hot tears -- unless the gods do n't care at all about human affairs .
I know that he 'll be on our side .
Yeah , that would get every single one of us executed .
Damn it ! I see you 're all determined to gang up on me for a few laughs . If you had any manners at all , you would n't treat me like this . Ca n't you just hate me , as I know you do ? Do you have to get together to humiliate me too ? If you were real men , as you pretend to be , you would n't treat a lady this way , making vows and promises and praising my beauty when I know you 're really both disgusted by me . You 're competing for
Am I the bird you 're going to shoot at now ? I 'll move my bush , so you 'll have to aim at a moving target . Thank you all for coming .
Listen to me , you traitor . You 'll pay the price for trying to make me go back on the vow I made when I bequeathed my kingdom to them . I 've never broken a vow yet . You tried to make me revise my judgment on my youngest daughter , disrespecting my power as
Men 's eyes were made to see things , so let them watch . I wo n't move to please anybody .
The blade poisoned ! Then get to work , poison !
When you 're baptized a Christian , you 'll have two godfathers . If I 'd been the judge , you would 've had ten more -- twelve jurors to sentence you to death rather than baptism .
You have no reason to say that .
You 've said what you have to say now .
Claribel , his daughter .
Lord Edmund did n't speak to your master at home ?
Right on cue .
Stay , fellow . I can read . " Signor Martino and his wife and daughters , Count Anselme and his beautiful sisters , Vitruvio 's widow , Signor Placentio and his lovely nieces , Mercutio and his brother Valentine , My uncle Capulet and his wife and daughters , My fair niece Rosaline and Livia ,
What do you think of these quick-witted folks , Gremio ?
Wait , sweet Beatrice .
I see what you 're like . You 're proud . But you 'd still be gorgeous even if you were as proud as the devil . My lord loves you . You should return a love as deep as his , even if you 're the most beautiful woman in the world .
Go , but sign the deed .
Prince , here lies Count Paris killed . And Romeo dead . And Juliet . She was dead before , but now she 's warm and has n't been dead for long .
Poins ! Poins , damn you ! Poins !
Verges is a good old man , sir , but he 's always babbling . Like they say , " When age comes , wit goes . " God help us , what a world ! You did well , Verges , honestly . Well , God 's a fair man . If two men are riding on one horse , one must naturally ride behind . Verges is as honest a man as any , but , God bless him , not all men are created equal . Am I right , my friend ?
C' mon , I might as well say the fool 's the fool ! But do n't you see what a deformed villain fashion is ?
Thank you , my good lord , thank you all . I thought my mother and my brother , York , would have met us on our way here long before now . And what a slug Hastings is that he has n't even arrived to tell us whether they 're coming !
What should we give to the man who killed this deer ? Give him the hide and the horns to wear . Then sing this song to send him home Do n't be ashamed to wear the horns . They 've been worn since before you were born . Your father 's father wore it , And your father endured it . The horn , the horn , the lustful horn Is not to be laughed at or scorned .
What did I keep for myself ?
My love , you look like you 're about to faint from wandering in the woods for so long , and to tell you the truth , I 've gotten us lost .
I do n't know whether God decided , because of some displeasing crime I have committed , to turn my own flesh and blood into a punisher and a plague upon me . The course of your life has me convinced that you are only meant for one purpose in this world : to be God 's vengeance against me for all my misdeeds . Why else would such disorderly and low desires , such poor , such wretched , such lewd , such despicable actions , such wasteful pleasures , and such vulgar company become associated with your high-born self , and call themselves equals with a Prince like you ?
Authority .
Please , father , I beg you .
You 've asked her for the bill enough times .
Leave now . Tell Ventidius I want to speak with him .
So , so , so , so ! The winner 's always got the last laugh , has n't he ?
Ariel , you 've done your work exactly as I ordered . But there 's more work to be done . What time is it ?
No , no , my husband , I 'm not angry that you urge me to deal more gently with my father . But you 're showing a lack of wisdom that that is much more noticeable than your tenderness toward him .
Then love me , Rosalind .
And look , here 's Publius , come to fetch me .
Honest , yes , honest .
Thing ? What thing ?
Shh , shh !
Oh stop it , you lusty bed - hopper . You ca n't see the future .
This is the time of night when witches come out , when graveyards yawn open and the stench of hell seeps out . I could drink hot blood and do such terrible deeds that people would tremble even in the daylight . But I 've got to go see my mother . --Oh , heart , do n't grow weak , like Nero Let me be cruel , but not inhuman .
Yes , my lord . Everything 's ready .
He 's a marvelously witty fellow , no doubt , but I 'll outmaneuver him . --Come over here ; I 'll whisper a word in your ear . Sir , I tell you we believe you 're both lying criminals .
Hey , Robin , jolly Robin , Tell me how your lady is .
Now I 'm sorry I raised my sword against him .
Oh God , Benedick will plague him like a disease ! Benedick is an infection that 's easy to catch but hard to get rid of -- and he 'll drive you crazy once you 've been infected . God help Claudio ! If he 's caught the Benedick , he 'll lose all his money before he 's cured .
Yes , dear madam .
Next time God sends out a shipment of hair , I hope he gives you a beard !
This is all your fault . You make mistakes constantly , or else you cause this kind of trouble on purpose .
His royal blood has drained right out of him . I hope I can talk to your ghost , Henry , without breaking church laws . I want you to hear my sorrow . My husband was murdered by the same man who stabbed you . My tears now fall into the holes where your life leaked out . I curse the man who made these holes . I curse the man 's heart who had the heart to stab you . And I curse the man 's blood who shed your blood . I want the man who made me suffer by killing you to face a more terrible end than I could wish on spiders , toads , and all the poisonous , venomous things things alive . If he ever has a child , let it be born prematurely , and let it look like a monster -- so ugly and unnatural that the sight of it frightens its own mother .
But I just ca n't love him . He should have resigned himself to that a long time ago .
Let 's continue . We 'll publicly proclaim the reasons we 're fighting . The people are sick of the leadership they themselves supported . They were greedy for it , but now they have overfed . When you build your foundation on the public 's love , you build on shaky and unsure ground . Oh , you foolish masses ! You shouted your love for Bolingbroke to the skies , before you knew what he 'd turn into . Now that you 're dressed in the things you desired , you monstrous devourer , you 're so full of Bolingbroke that you 're ready to vomit him up . This , you vulgar dog , is just how you emptied your gluttonous stomach of King Richard ; and now you want to eat up your dead vomit , and you howl trying to find it . What can you count on in this world ? The very people who wanted Richard dead when he was alive are now in love with his corpse . The very people who threw garbage on his noble head when he marched through London in shame behind the admired Bolingbroke are now saying , " Oh Earth , return that King , and take this one ! " Curses on men 's thoughts ! Only the past and the future appeal to them ; whatever they have right now they despise .
No , not for long , that 's certain . For we could n't even put up a dozen or so nice girls who make an honest living sewing without our neighbors thinking we were running a brothel .
If you had , the kings that have revolted and the soldier that deserted this morning would still be behind you .
No ? Why ? The man I 'm married to now came to me when he 'd barely washed the blood off his hands from killing my first husband , that angel , as well as my husband 's sainted father , whose corpse I was following to burial . I 'm telling you , when I looked at Richard 's face , this is what I wished : " I want you to be cursed for making me a widow so young . And when you get married , let sorrow haunt your bed . And I hope your wife -- if any woman is crazy enough to marry you -- is more miserable about the fact that you 're alive as you have made me by killing my husband ! " And then what ? Before I even had time to repeat the curse , my woman 's heart was taken captive by his sweet , slick words . I became the victim of my own curse . Since I married him , I have not had one hour 's sleep in his bed . Every night I 'm awakened by his terrified dreams . It does n't matter if I sleep , though . He hates me because of who my father is . He will , no doubt , get rid of me soon .
Why , he has an income of three thousand ducats a year .
Are you biting your thumb at us ?
Oh God ! I 'm afraid everything will be turned upside - down .
What you 're saying could cure deafness , father . Of course I hear it .
Good morning , and God save your majesty !
Poor Tom 's chilly . I ca n't play this role any longer .
It 's not up to you to say " Yes " or " No. "
Go hang yourselves , all of you ! You 're all lazy and shallow . I 'm not like you . I have a higher future waiting for me . You 'll know more about it later .
I knew it ! My uncle ?
From Eastcheap , my noble lord .
Truly , that 's a conquest to make even a prince brag .
As the king 's mother , I have a large share in your grief . I have wept at my own good husband 's death and only kept myself alive by looking at his sons , the mirror images of him . But now these two mirrors of their princely father have cracked to pieces : my sons are dead . And my only comfort is Richard , who is nothing like his father and only causes me shame . You may be a widow , but you 're also a mother . You have your children as comfort . But death has snatched my husband from my arms and plucked my two crutches , Edward and Clarence , from my feeble hands . Since your woes are only a portion of mine , I have every reason to surpass your lamentations and drown out your cries with my own .
That 's what you women get when you trick us into marriage . --Let 's get started , murderer on stage , please ! Damn it , stop fussing with the makeup , and get going . We 're all waiting for the revenge !
Of all the days in the year , I started the day that the late King Hamlet defeated Fortinbras .
Your wife , Fulvia , mustered her army first .
Dream about your nephews , smothered in the Tower . Let us rest in your heart as heavily as lead , Richard , and drag you down to ruin , shame , and death ! Your nephews ' souls command that you despair and die ! Sleep , Richmond , sleep in peace and wake in joy . Good angels will protect you from the boar 's attacks ! Live , and give birth to a whole , happy race of kings ! Edward 's unlucky sons want you to flourish .
Stand back . Give him room .
Are you sure we 're awake ? It seems to me like we 're still sleeping , still dreaming . Do you remember seeing the duke here ? Did he tell us to follow him ?
Let me finish . Here 's the water , right ? And here 's a man , okay ? If the man goes into the water and drowns himself , he 's the one doing it , like it or not . But if the water comes to him and drowns him , then he does n't drown himself . Therefore , he who is innocent of his own death does not shorten his own life .
He 's fainted . --My lord , my lord !
If you roar too ferociously , you 'll scare the duchess and the other ladies and make them scream . And that would get us all executed .
Our fate depends on this chance .
Let 's walk over and see if the other soldiers heard the same thing .
Cassio was attacked here in the dark by Roderigo and men who escaped . He 's near death , and Roderigo 's dead already .
" Good luck , and may God have mercy on one of our souls . He may have mercy upon mine . But I have a better chance of surviving , so watch out . Signed , your friend , if you treat him right , and your sworn enemy , Andrew Aguecheek "
But yet , madam --
Good day to you , sir .
If it 's not true , you can call me a villain .
When the lords who are imprisoned at Pomfret left London , they also were in a good mood and supposed their situation was secure . And they also had no reason to worry . But you see how soon the day got cloudy for them . Richard 's sudden , hateful attack on them makes me worry . I hope to God I 'm proven wrong ! Well , should we head to the Tower ? The day is well on its way .
Oh , Pomfret , Pomfret ! Oh , you bloody prison , fatal and threatening to noble lords ! Within these guilty walls , Richard II was hacked to death . And now , to add more blood to its name , we 're losing our innocent lives here .
Here he is .
Damn you , you villain , you rascal !
Did n't they ever whisper ?
No , no , sir . Listen , the king is tired of getting upset over every little thing . He 's discovered that ending one problem by killing someone only creates two bigger problems in the people left alive . So from now on , he 'll wipe his memory clean , and forget anything that might remind him of the bad things from his past . He knows that he ca n't just eliminate every single opponent who crops up . His enemies are rooted in with his friends , to the extent that , if he tries to pull up an enemy , he 'll also uproot and discard a friend . This country 's like a misbehaving wife , who , just when her husband is about to hit her , holds his baby up , and freezes the intended punishment in the very arm that was poised to apply it .
" The father of the lady of the house " ? You scoundrel ! You lowlife son - of - a - bitch ! You dog , you peasant !
Shame on you , warped hag ! Your true demonic features are distorting your body . If I let myself do what I yearn to , I 'd rip the flesh off your bones . But I wo n't attack a woman , even if she is a demon .
Get into the hut , man . Stay warm .
The man who was a suspect in that robbery ?
Yep , you 're damned like a roasted egg : all on one side .
If you 're as poor a subject as he is a king , you definitely are poor . What do you want ?
Remember the reward we 're getting when the deed' s done .
Oh , what an excellent young man !
He must like me , since he 's let me spend two thousand of his ducats .
Villains , you did n't do even that much when your vile daggers struck each other as they hacked up Caesar 's sides . You smiled like apes and fawned like dogs and bowed like servants , kissing Caesar 's feet . And all the while , damned Casca , like a dog , struck Caesar on the neck from behind . Oh , you flatterers !
You who are wicked beyond belief , the only " explanation " I 'll accept from you is for you to hang yourself .
Please , corporal , stop ! The fighting is too violent . Speaking for myself , I only have one life , not dozens . Too violent ! That 's just how it is , the plain truth of it .
I was hired to perfume all the rooms in Leonato 's house . As I was working on one musty room , the Prince and Claudio entered . They were in the middle of a serious conversation . I quickly hid behind a tapestry and heard them agree that the Prince would court Hero tonight at the dance and , once he won her consent to marry , would give her to Claudio .
Laertes , what makes you so rebellious ? Let him go , Gertrude . Do n't worry about my getting hurt . God protects the king , so traitors ca n't hurt him . --Tell me , Laertes , why you 're so angry . --Gertrude , let him go . --Tell me , man .
Sirrah , what time do you plan to be in London ?
Help , mistress , help ! My master has gone mad .
Yes , side by side , like prisoners to the gallows .
What are you doing with a sword ? Who do you think you are coming in here armed ?
That 's the right answer -- it shows your love . Stay in Denmark like us . --My dear wife , come . Hamlet 's agreeing to stay makes me happy , and every merry toast I 'll drink today will be heard as far as the clouds overhead . My drinking will be echoed in the heavens . Let 's go .
Call up the Master Constable Dogberry . We have recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that was ever known in the commonwealth .
You have my friendship . Is n't that enough ?
I 'm quite well , and may God give you what you deserve . They say the baker 's daughter was turned into an owl for refusing Jesus ' bread . My lord , we know what we are now , but not what we may become . May God be at your table .
Play me some music . Good morning , my friends . --Have them sing me that song again , Cesario , that old-fashioned song someone sang last night . It made me feel better and took my mind off my troubles much better than the silly songs they sing nowadays . Please , have them sing just one verse .
And what will you do if it returns to you ?
What 's your profession ? What do you want from me ?
Monster sweetie , be a good monster and just speak once .
Are you her husband , boy ?
Your delicacies are n't worth as much to me as your welcome is .
I am their father 's mother . I will see them .
I suppose this news disrupts our plans to invade the Holy Land .
I beg your pardon ; I was distracted . Kind gentlemen , I wo n't forget the trouble you 've taken for me whenever I think of this day . Let 's go to the king . Think about what happened today , and when we 've both had time to consider things , let 's talk .
When you wonder whether he 'll keep treating me well , it makes me think his mood might change -- or else I 'll mess up somehow . Do his feelings toward people change suddenly ?
Stay , then . I 'll go alone . I 'm suddenly afraid . Oh , I 'm very scared something awful has happened .
His faults were equally matched by his virtues .
What were you before this ?
Oh , what an even disposition he has ! Observe , observe good Charmian ! That 's exactly how he is ! Just notice . He was n't sad , because he knows that his disposition affects others . He was n't merry , because to be merry would indicate that he had forgotten his love in Egypt . He was somewhere in the middle , between them ... Oh , heavenly mixture ! Whether you are sad or merry , the intensity of either suits you like no one else ... Did you meet my messengers on your way here ?
No , I 'll give nothing . I wo n't budge on that .
My lord , will you please continue on your way to the Tower ? My good cousin Buckingham and I will go to your mother and ask her to meet you there .
After midnight , for two nights running , these two guards , Marcellus and Barnardo , saw a figure that looked very much like your father , in full armor from head to toe . It just appeared before them and marched past them with slow dignity three times , a staff 's distance from their amazed eyes , while they turned , quaking with fear and too shocked to speak . They told me all about this , so on the third night I agreed to come stand guard with them , to see for myself . It happened again , just as they had described . I knew your father . This ghost looked as much like him as my two hands are like each other .
On a night like this , young Lorenzo swore he loved her very much , stealing her heart with vows of love , but not one vow was true .
No , boy .
Get out of here , you crooks ! Draw your sword , Bardolph . Cut off this rascal 's head , and throw this whore in the gutter .
I 've been hurt . May a plague curse both your families . I 'm finished . Did he get away clean ?
He 's not wise enough to be brave . Anyway , he is what he is . Let 's listen to the moon .
Yes , my lord .
Oh , really ?
You mean , to bear me , not to bear with me . Uncle , my brother makes fun of both of us . Because I 'm little , like an ape , he thinks you should bear me on your shoulders , like a fool .
Here 's the deal : we 're safe on the Baptista front . He 's talking with the bogus father about the bogus son .
Poor Egeon ! Fate has decreed that you must endure the extremes of terrible misfortune . Believe me , if it were n't against the law , my crown , my duty , and my position , my very soul would argue your case . But you are sentenced to death , and changing a sentence that 's already been passed would dishonor my title . However , I 'll do what I can for you . I will allow you one day to look for help in Ephesus . Call any friends you have . Beg or borrow to come up with the ransom . If you can , you live . If not , you are doomed to die . Jailer , take him into custody .
I 'd rather die . Here is some money for you to kill me immediately . Kill Brutus and be honored by the killing .
What did you say ?
I get it . And it 's good , I bet my life on it !
The whole time .
Now I 'm decided , and I will exert every muscle in my body to commit this crime . Go now , and pretend to be a friendly hostess . Hide with a false pleasant face what you know in your false , evil heart .
Here .
Then we 'll see that tomorrow night . By the way , if I were to compose an extra speech of twelve to sixteen lines and stick it into the play , you could learn it by heart for tomorrow , right ?
Sir , we came to see your father 's funeral .
Damn this gout ! Or damn this syphilis ! One of them is really messing up my big toe . Oh well , it does n't matter if I limp . I can blame it on the war , and that will help justify my disability payments . A sharp brain can turn any problem to its advantage . I 'll turn my diseases into cash .
I 'll do as you say , father .
We 're all like men who do n't remember how to speak .
Here comes Romeo , here comes Romeo !
What 's the matter ? Let 's have some order here !
I hear him coming . Quick , let 's hide , my lord .
Never ! I reject that life ; I kick it away with my heels .
Do you even know what you 're talking about ?
I am their aunt , and I love them like a mother . So take me to see them . Officer , I 'll take the responsibility from you , and the blame too .
Where 's that music coming from ? From the earth , or the air ? It 's stopped now -- it must be played for some local god of the island . As I sat on the shore crying over my father 's shipwreck , I heard the music creep over the wild waves , calming their fury and soothing my own grief with its sweet melodies . I followed it here , or I should say it dragged me here . But now it 's stopped . No , there it is again .
Yes , Desdemona .
Only Antony was at fault . He put his desire in charge of his reason . So what if you ran from the battle , terrified , as ranks of ships threatened one another ? Why should he have followed you ? With half the world opposing the other half , it was n't the time for Antony , the pivotal player , to let love distract him . To race after your departing ships , leaving his navy to watch , was a shame as great as the resulting loss .
Master Gower , what 's going on ?
Edmund is dead , my lord .
I brought my master news of Juliet 's death . And then he rode from Mantua here to this tomb . Earlier this morning he asked me to give this letter to his father . When he went into the vault , he threatened me with death if I did n't leave him alone there .
I 'm a woman 's tailor , sir .
My widow means that her remark expressed the way she understood him .
Indeed , I would have such an exploit for you , Ligarius , if you were healthy enough to hear it .
What an ogre you are to slander someone you do n't know , and who does n't know you !
They fled toward Peloponnesus .
Please , come .
Argh ! She 's cheating on me ?
Good luck , sir .
How dare you talk about kindness or shame . You have only been unkind to me , and you have shamefully butchered my hopes . My kindness to you is to be outraged at what has happened , and my sad , sad shame is in what you have done to my life .
Do you want Doll Tearsheet to meet you at dinner ?
Then leave him out .
Let 's do it tonight . The men are so tired from traveling that they ca n't be as careful as they are when they 're fresh .
Listen , I feel like I 'm being whipped with sticks and stung by ants when I hear about this vile politician , Bolingbroke . When Richard was alive -- what is that place called ? Damn , it 's in Gloucestershire ; it 's where that crazy duke 's uncle lived , his uncle York . It 's where I first met this lying Bolingbroke , and bowed to him . --Shoot! --It happened when you and Bolingbroke came back from Ravenspurgh .
I promise I will . Meet me in a little while at the citadel . I need to get Othello 's things from the ship . Goodbye .
You notorious whore ! Cassio , do you know who might have stabbed you like this ?
What are you going to tell her , Nurse ? You 're not paying attention to me .
Cart her , you mean . She 's too much for me . How about you , Hortensio ? Are you still interested in marrying ?
According to this letter , Don Pedro of Aragon and his army are coming to Messina tonight .
For God 's sake no , I have n't . You are the queen , your husband 's brother 's wife , and you are my mother , though I wish you were n't .
Oh , husband , God himself knows you ate at home . I wish you had stayed there , avoiding these scandals and this public embarrassment !
No. I 've got to admit , you 've settled with her all by yourself .
Has n't he proven himself to be a great villain -- slandering , scorning , and dishonoring my cousin ? Oh , I wish I were a man ! He pretended that everything was fine until the moment they were exchanging vows , and then -- with public accusation , blatant slander , pure hatred --Oh God , if only I were a man ! I would rip his heart out in public and eat it .
Stop here , sirs . Send out scouts to find out how many soldiers our enemy has .
What should we say , my lord ?
She has a very significant body . You could n't even talk about it without saying , " I beg your pardon . " My luck would be running thin if I ended up with her , although she 'd make it a fat marriage .
How often are men happy right before they die ! They call it the lightness before death . Oh , how can I call this lightness ? Oh , my love ! My wife ! Death has sucked the honey from your breath , but it has not yet ruined your beauty . You have n't been conquered . There is still red in your lips and in your cheeks . Death has not yet turned them pale . Tybalt , are you lying there in your bloody death shroud ? Oh , what better favor can I do for you than to kill the man who killed you with the same hand that made you die young . Forgive me , cousin ! Ah , dear Juliet , why are you still so beautiful ? Should I believe that death is in love with you , and that the awful monster keeps you here to be his mistress ? I do n't like that idea , so I 'll stay with you . And I will never leave this tomb . Here , here I 'll remain with worms that are your chamber - maids . Oh , I 'll rest here forever . I 'll forget about all the bad luck that has troubled me . Eyes , look out for the last time ! Arms , make your last embrace ! And lips , you are the doors of breath . Seal with a righteous kiss the deal I have made with death forever . Come , bitter poison , come , unsavory guide ! You desperate pilot , let 's crash this sea - weary ship into the rocks ! Here 's to my love ! ROMEO drinks the poison . Oh , that pharmacist was honest ! His drugs work quickly . So I die with a kiss .
What ? Are you pressing your petition on the street ? Go to the Capitol .
My lady 's mean , and that 's a fact .
A deed that destroys modesty , turns virtue into hypocrisy , replaces the blossom on the face of true love with a nasty blemish , makes marriage vows as false as a gambler 's oath-- oh , you 've done a deed that plucks the soul out of marriage and turns religion into meaningless blather . Heaven looks down on this earth , as angry as if Judgment Day were here , and is sick at the thought of what you 've done .
I think he 's very forgiving , since he let the Englishman slap him on the ear without hitting him back . Rather than defend himself , he just threatened to pay the Englishman back later . Then the Frenchman promised to help the Scot pay the Englishman back , and added a slap of his own .
I tell you , man , it 's better for me , too , than the last time we met here . Then I was on my way to the Tower , where I was going to be locked up thanks to the false charges of the queen 's allies . But now , I tell you -- keep it to yourself , though -- those enemies of mine are being put to death today , and I 'm better than I 've ever been .
If he 'd written nice things , I 'd swear yes right away . But as it stands , I wish I could believe it was n't .
I do n't doubt him . Can I have a word with you , Lucillius ? Tell me how Cassius treated you . Put my mind at rest .
What hope is that , may I ask ?
What , are you trying to make me crazy ? I 'm Christopher Sly , son of old Sly of Barton - on - Heath , a peddler by birth , a cardmaker by trade , a keeper of trained bears by bad luck , and now , by present profession , a tinker . Go ask Marian Hacket , the fat innkeeper of Wincot . She knows me ! She 'll tell you about the tab I 've run up -- fourteen pence just for ale . If she does n't , call me the biggest liar in Christendom . I 'm not crazy ! Just look at how --
What do you think I should do ?
At least I do n't have a horse for my mistress -- or a saying so beside the point .
Do n't talk to him , my friend . Who , me , sir ? Not me , sir . God be with you , Sir Topas , goodbye . Well then , amen . Goodbye , sir .
For God 's sake , throw him down the stairs . I ca n't stand such a worthless jerk .
A loud - mouthed , drunken monster .
Come on , sweet Audrey . I 'll get your goats , Audrey . Well now , what do you think , Audrey ? Am I the man for you , Audrey ? Do my simple features please you ?
I have no doubts . All these troubles will give us stories to tell each other later in life .
Lady , you have lost Signior Benedick 's heart .
I was just curious . No reason .
I could imagine he 's divine , since I never saw anything so noble - looking on earth before .
Hello to you too , sir .
The hart .
I 'm already here , sir .
Then it 's certain they 're heading for Cyprus . Is Marcus Luccicos in town ?
Then come again for another reason . You might still be able to make yourself fall in love with me , the person he loves , even though you hate me now .
Why , then , it 's my body 's doomsday . Today I 'm going to get what I said I wished would happen to me if I was ever false to King Edward 's children or his wife 's allies . This is the day I 'm going to get what I wished for when I wished that the person I most trusted would betray me . This , this All - Souls ' day , is my just desserts . I tried to play games with God , and he turned my fake prayer on my head , giving me for real what I 'd asked for as a joke .
Will we hear from you before bedtime , Catesby ?
All traitors protest like this . If they could purge their guilt simply by saying that they were innocent , they 'd all be as innocent as God Himself . I do n't trust you . Enough said .
Has it come to this ?
He 's asking him to tell the story again . Go on , tell it .
Yes , she 's pretty . But she 's modest and ladylike too .
For no man , sir .
There 's a method to his madness . Will you step outside , my lord ?
Now , now , Ensign Pistol . Fortune is depicted as blind , with a scarf over her eyes , to signify that she is blind . And she is depicted with a wheel to signify -- this is the point -- that she is turning and inconstant , and all about change and variation . And her foot , see , is planted on a spherical stone that rolls and rolls and rolls . Truly , artists do wonderful things with the image of Fortune . She provides an excellent moral .
It may be that his antagonist is a gentleman of very high degree , quite outside of his own sphere .
Do n't think I blame you . Whatever injuries I received in the war , I put down to the fortunes of war .
There is a crab-apple here .
Now I see that the devil understands Welsh ; it 's no surprise he 's so moody . By God , he 's a good musician .
Let 's bet them a thousand ducats that we will have a son first .
Hold on , daughter , I see some hope . But we must act boldly because the situation is so desperate . If you 've made up your mind to kill yourself instead of marrying Count Paris , then you 'll probably be willing to try something like death to solve this shameful problem . You can wrestle with death to escape from shame . And if you dare to do it , I 'll give you the solution .
But things have changed there , and it 's easier for them on the road now .
Therefore , sir --
We 'll start a fire .
Shh ! We 've got him right where we want him . He 's on a big ego trip .
No Corin , since you 're old , you cannot guess -- even if you were as dedicated a lover in your youth as there ever was , sighing and mooning all night long . If your love was anything like mine -- and I 'm sure that no man has loved as I love now -- exactly how many ridiculous actions did your fantasizing lead you to ?
She says she thinks this is a prank . She will not come . She says that you should come to her .
My son will win .
He was a great human being . He was perfect in everything . I 'll never see the likes of him again .
Nice . Very courageous .
Then she 's making you beg , and that gives you a whole new set of things to talk about .
I think my share , north of Burton here , is n't as big as any of yours . Look how this river swoops in . It cuts out a huge chunk of my best land , in the shape of a half - moon . I 'll have a dam built . I 'll re-route the Trent River so it wo n't go winding so far into my land and rob me of a fertile valley .
No , he did n't charge interest -- not in your sense of the word . But listen to what Jacob did . When he and Laban agreed that all the spotted lambs would be Jacob 's pay , it was the end of autumn , when the sheep were starting to mate . Because newborns look like whatever their mother sees during mating , he stuck some spotted branches into the ground right in front of the sheep , who saw them while they mated . The mothers later gave birth to spotted lambs , all of which went to Jacob . That was his way of expanding his business , and it worked . My point is that profit is a blessing , as long as you do n't steal to get it .
Bardolph , go ahead of us to Coventry , and fill me a bottle of wine . Our army will keep marching , and we 'll make it to Sutton Coldfield tonight .
Okay , just stay quiet . Go on .
I 'm not going to waste any more time with you . Goodbye , good Mr. Love .
Both of which , master constable --
I 'll tell you what it means . It means peace and love and a quiet life , supremacy based on reverence and profound respect , and -- not to go on and on about it -- everything that 's sweet and happy .
No , my lord , it 's been four months .
And the women ?
Do n't be upset . You 're welcome in our home in spite of everything that 's going on .
Both our armies are full of men who will make the ultimate sacrifice in this battle , once it starts . Tell your nephew that the Prince of Wales joins the whole world
What is it you 'd like , father ?
I know the sound of his walk . --Die , villain !
I understand all of you . For now , I 'll put on the rowdy behavior of your good-for-nothing ways . But in this way , I 'll be like the sun , who allows the vulgar , corrupting clouds to hide his beauty from the world . Then , when the sun wants to be himself again , he breaks through the foul mists and vapors that seemed to be strangling him .
a visit . Let 's renew our old friendship . Maybe I 'll even come with you to the royal court !
Why , do you know of any harm intended toward him ?
I mean my daughter is my flesh and blood .
Harry le Roy .
His is guaranteed . Ours is n't .
Forgive me for asking , but have you ever actually seen Baptista 's daughter ?
What do we have here ? A picture of beautiful Portia ! What artist captured her likeness so well ? Are these eyes moving ? Or do they just seem to move as my eyes move ? Her sweet breath forces her lips open , a lovely divider of lovely lips . And look at her hair , looking like a golden mesh to trap the hearts of men , like little flies in a cobweb . The painter was like a spider in creating it so delicately . But her eyes -- how could he keep looking at them long enough to paint them ? I would 've expected that when he finished one of them , it would have enraptured him and kept him from painting the other . But I 'm giving only faint praise of the picture , just as the picture , as good as it is , is only a faint imitation of the real woman herself . Here 's the scroll that sums up my fate : " You who do n't judge by looks alone , Have better luck , and make the right choice . Since this prize is yours , Be happy with it , and do n't look for a new one . If you 're happy with what you 've won And accept this prize as your blissful destiny , Then turn to where your lady is , And claim her with a loving kiss . "
Indeed , my lord , the gloomy Jaques grieves over these deaths . He swears that when you kill the deer , you 're a worse usurper than your brother was for banishing you . Today , Lord Amiens and I followed Jaques . We saw him lie down along a brook under an oak tree whose ancient roots peeked out from the earth . A poor , lonely stag who had been hurt by a hunter 's arrow came to rest there , where he heaved such heavy groans that the effort seemed to stretch his hide to bursting . Big , round tears ran piteously down the animal 's innocent nose . The hairy fool , watched closely by sad Jaques , stood on the very edge of the brook , adding his own tears to the streaming water .
He 's a king , a king !
Yes , ma'am , I know it well . I was born and raised less than three hours from here .
Speak , if you can . What kind of creatures are you ?
Now , tailor , let 's see what you 've got . Lay out the gown .
Who said that ? Why , my worthy lord , you let yourself become weak when you think about things in this cowardly way . Go get some water and wash this bloody evidence from your hands . Why did you carry these daggers out of the room ? They have to stay there . Go take them back and smear the sleeping guards with the blood .
I 've performed as many rites as I 'm permitted . Her death was suspicious , and were it not for the fact that the king gave orders to bury her here , she 'd have been buried outside the church graveyard . She deserves to have rocks and stones thrown on her body . But she has had prayers read for her and is dressed up like a pure virgin , with flowers tossed on her grave and the bell tolling for her .
Show them in .
Time to go .
Madam , I am not well .
So you 'll bring the necklace to her yourself ?
Tranio , I saw her coral-pink lips move and perfume the air with her breath . I saw nothing in her except what is virtuous and lovely .
Well , goodbye . I 've known you twenty-nine years this June . But a more honest , more good-hearted man -- well , fare you well .
Give me your hand . Are you educated ?
I know that man , Deformed . For the past seven years , he 's been a wicked thief . He walks around as if he were a gentleman . I remember that name .
No , madam . I 'm very uncomfortable , and that wo n't help my case .
Your highness , why not tell them directly what you think of their list of grievances .
Are you going to say good things about the man who killed your cousin ?
Goodbye , Edmund .
This news is absolutely true : Mark Antony is expected to arrive in Rome at any hour now . In the time since he left Egypt , he could have traveled an even longer distance .
Help me away from here , dear Charmian ! I shall faint . I wo n't be able to go on this way much longer . Human nature is n't built to withstand this .
An angel is like you , Kate , and you are like an angel .
And you 're all sizzle . Stand back , boy . Age is the thing that nourishes .
Here come two of Sir John Falstaff 's men , I think .
Has he ever tested out these ideas on you before ?
I can endure far more pain than you could ever give me ! Oh , you idiot ! You stupid fool ! As dumb as dirt ! You 've committed a terrible evil --I 'm not afraid of your sword . I 'll tell everyone what you did , even if it
And you in hell , whenever he hears someone say " Owen Glendower . "
seduced by the sweet nothings they said to me . I 've liked several women for their good qualities , but there was something wrong with each one that blotted her excellent qualities and cancelled them out . But with you it 's different . You 're perfect , without a rival in the world , made up of the best qualities of every creature .
Why are you telling me this ? Let it be .
Varrus and Claudio !
It 's too bad that Antony 's fault should make you look like a jerk . You did n't have anything to do with it . Go away . The merchandise you bring from Rome is too expensive for me . Let it stay in your inventory until it bankrupts you .
Did he cry ? Did he beg my pardon ?
If it 's for me , do n't keep it from me . Let me have it now .
Where are they ?
There 's some gentleman out there . -- Damn these pickled herring ! They upset my stomach . How 's it going , fool ?
There have never been orphans who 've suffered what we have .
Yes , better than you know me . I know you 're my oldest brother , and deserve more respect . But we 're in the same family , so you should acknowledge that I am a gentleman too . According to custom , as the first-born you are my superior . But it 's not customary to treat me like I 'm not even a gentleman , even if there were twenty brothers between you and me . I have as much of our father in me as you do , though I admit you 're closer to him and matter more because you 're older .
It 's almost a mile to the palace gate , but Banquo , like everybody else , usually walks from here to the palace .
Have I done something to offend you without knowing it ?
I do n't have the thing that makes time fly .
You 've humiliated him , lady : you 've put him down .
Forgive me saying so , sir , but if you 've got news from the court , then you have only two choices : you can either tell it or not tell it . I have some authority from the King , you know .
This one ?
What does his height have to do with anything ?
Well , sir , it 's true it came soon after .
You 're mistaken . My brother did n't use my name to justify his rebellion . I talked to some reliable participants in that battle . On the contrary , his fight was with both of us . He rejected my authority as much as yours . Since you and I share a common cause , would n't his actions against you be hostile to me as well ? I 've already sent the proof in my letters . If you want to pick a fight , you 'll have to find a more substantial excuse .
It 's better you do n't know about it until after it 's done , when you can applaud it . Come , night , and blindfold the kindhearted day . Use your bloody and invisible hand to tear up Banquo 's lease on life , which keeps me in fear . The sky 's getting dark , and the crow is returning home to the woods . The gentle creatures of the day are falling asleep , while night 's predators are waking up to look for their prey . You seem surprised at my words , but do n't question me yet . Bad deeds force you to commit more bad deeds . So please , come with me .
Then let 's get closer , so she can hear all the false , sweet bait we 're setting for her . -- No , truly , Ursula , she 's too scornful . She 's as devious and fierce as the wild hawks on the rocks .
Well , then , Coleville is your name , your rank is knight , and the valley is where you 're from . Coleville will still be your name now that " traitor " is your rank , and the dungeon is where you 'll be . It 's a place so deep that you 'll still be in a kind of valley .
Oh , you 're wrong . I would have made it short . I had come to the deepest part of my tale , and I planned to say nothing more on the topic .
Follow me closely , I 'll talk to them . Good afternoon , gentlemen . I 'd like to have a word with one of you .
I mean what I say .
Look , I have a weapon , the best sword a soldier could have . I 've fought my way through obstacles twenty times more terrifying than you with this weapon . But
Get out , you horrible bastard , or I 'll gouge out your eyes . I 'll scalp you .
And not just with her , but wherever my cash was good . And when I ran out , I switched to credit .
Oh , then you never loved as wholeheartedly as me . If you ca n't remember the stupidest little thing love made you do , you have n't loved . Or if you have n't sat as I do now , boring your listener with all your lover 's virtues , then you have n't loved . Or if you have n't broken away from human company , as my feelings now lead me to do , you have n't loved . O Phoebe , Phoebe , Phoebe !
Listen , Fairy King . I can hear the lark singing . Morning 's here .
But sir , have you married my daughter without my consent ?
Goneril , are you coming with us ?
That 's the deal .
So you 're admitting Clarence , my father , is dead . My uncle the king is to blame for this . God will take revenge . I will pray every day that he does .
However much blood we need to give to water the royal flower and drown the weeds -- to make Malcolm king and get rid of Macbeth . Let 's proceed on our march to Birnam .
Hurry to hell , then , and leave the world alone , you demon ! Hell is where your kingdom is .
Come , my lord . I 'll lead you to your tent .
Go to hell , sir . Are you still here ? Go away ! Do what I tell you . Where 's the wine I ordered ?
Lord Alexas , sweet Alexas , most anything Alexas , almost the most consummate Alexas , where 's the fortuneteller you recommended so highly to the Queen ? Oh , I only wish I knew the name of that husband you said he predicted will have a cheating wife !
What do you mean , " in a strange way " ?
I did n't . The man who brought my answer to you was a fool . You have broken my heart . A friend should put up with his friend 's weaknesses , but you exaggerate mine .
You see that man who just left ? He 's a good soldier , good enough to be Caesar 's right-hand man . But he has a serious weakness . It 's too bad . I 'm worried that Othello trusts him too much , and it 'll be bad for Cyprus eventually .
What do you think about this change ?
You thought that because you wished it to be true . I live too long for you ; you 're tired of me . Are you so desperate for my throne that you would take the honors of kingship before it 's your time ? Oh you foolish youth ! You long for power that will end up overwhelming you . Wait a little while . What power I have left is held together so weakly that the lightest breeze would blow it away : my life is fading . You stole something from me that would freely have been yours in just a few hours . On my deathbed , you 've confirmed all my expectations . All your life you showed that you did n't love me , and now I will die certain of it . There are a thousand daggers in your thoughts , which you 've sharpened on your stony heart with the hopes of stabbing me in the little time I have left . What ? Could n't you endure me for half an hour ? Then go and dig my grave yourself , and ring the bells to mark your coronation , not my death . Let all the tears that should be shed on my hearse be drops of holy water to bless your head .
I am not a thing to say " thank God " for , I want you to know ; I am an honest man 's wife . And ignoring the fact that you are a knight , you are a brute for calling me that .
This has n't reached the level of an Egyptian feast yet .
Hear , hear ! I 'll drink as much as you do !
What is the matter ?
All right , you 've had your say , but we 'll let the forest judge whether or not you spoke wisely .
Turn on the lights . Get me out of here !
Sir John , Sir John . I know too well how you are accustomed to turning the truth into a big lie . But neither your confident demeanor nor the storm of words that accompanies your insolent disrespect will sway me from making a just consideration . As far as I can see , you 've taken advantage of this trusting woman , and you 've made her give you cash and other favors .
I 'm at your service , madam . Both of you are very welcome here .
The queen is here on special business , and her army has moved on .
To make a long story short , the request is about me , as this good old man will tell you . Even though I 'm his son and I 'm the one saying it , this old man is a poor man --
Liberty ! Freedom ! Tyranny is dead ! Run and proclaim it in the streets .
Come here , sir . I 'll wrestle with you out of love . See , now I have you .
There are women like that out there , no question .
I swear , I 'd like to beat the jerk so hard !
If you walked outside at night , it would be daylight here at the same time as on the other side of the world .
Here . He 's completely stunned by this mutiny .
How foolish your fears seem now , Calphurnia ! I 'm ashamed that I yielded to them . Give me my robe , because I 'm going .
What ? You fat fool ! The hell with you !
He made good time . You see how the storm , the jagged rocks , and the sand banks that trap ships all appreciate a beautiful woman . They let the heavenly Desdemona arrive safe and sound .
Is he sane ? Is he losing his mind ?
There 's nothing to fear in him . Let 's not kill him . He 'll live and laugh at this afterward .
Oh , bad dog . --He 's losing the scent !
The Lord Grandpre .
It would follow from this that the cat should stay home . But that is a false conclusion , since we have locks to keep our valuables safe and clever traps to catch little thieves . While the armed hand fights in foreign lands , the wise head defends itself at home . For though the state is divided into different levels and functions , it all works in agreement for a unified purpose , a natural and perfect end such as we find in music .
Can a weak , empty vessel bear the burden of such a huge , full barrel ? There 's a whole merchant 's stock of Bordeaux wine in him ; you 've never seen a ship with a fuller cargo hold . Come , Jack , I 'll be friends with
Both on one horse ?
Shhh ! I hope he reads it out loud , to make it funnier !
Well , your imprisonment wo n't last long . I will either get you out , lying if I have to , or stay in prison in your place . In the meantime , be patient .
My lord , I swear to you --
A prince should n't be vulgarly inclined toward things like small beer .
" Good friend , " he said , " say that the faithful Roman sends an oyster 's treasure to the great Queen of Egypt , and that he plans to enhance this meager gift by adding new kingdoms to her empire . Tell her that the entire East shall call her Queen . " Then he nodded and solemnly mounted an armored warhorse , which neighed so loudly it effectively silenced anything I might have said in reply .
You shall have one .
Keep your word . Farewell .
Where will the old duke live ?
Master , if you eat with her , bring really long silverware .
Yes , sir , we hope so .
Bad people start to look better in comparison with worse people . Not being the worst daughter deserves some praise , I guess . I 'll go stay with you , then . Your fifty is twice her twenty - five , so you must love me twice as much as she does .
It 's not due yet . I 'd hate to pay him before the due date . Why should I be so eager to pay him before he even asks for it ? Well , it does n't matter : honor spurs me on . Yeah , but what if honor spurs me off once I 'm on , and picks me out to die ? What happens then ? Can honor set a broken leg ? No. Or an arm ? No. Can it make a wound stop hurting ? No. Honor ca n't perform surgery , then ? No. What is honor ? A word . What is in that word , " honor ? " What is that " honor ? " Air . Quite a bargain ! Who has it ? A guy who died last Wednesday . Does he feel it ? No. Does he hear it ? No. It ca n't be detected , then ? Right -- not by the dead , anyway . But wo n't it live with the living ? No. Why ? Slander wo n't allow it . That 's why I do n't want any part of it . Honor is nothing more than a gravestone , and that concludes my catechism .
By this day and this light , the fellow is certainly brave . Here , twelve pence for you . I urge you to serve God and stay out of brawls and dust-ups and quarrels and disputes . I promise it will be better for you if you do .
What 's the news , Lord Bardolph ? Every minute , new violence erupts ; it is a wild time . Conflict is like a horse , fed with too much rich food : it has broken out uncontrollably , and tramples everyone who stands before it .
Oh my son , God made you take it from me so that , in pleading your case so beautifully , you would make me love you more ! Come here , Harry . Sit by my bed and listen to what I think will be the last advice I ever give . God knows the unusual paths and indirect , crooked ways that led me to this crown . And I know very well how much anxiety it has caused as I 've worn it . It will fall to you in bitter peace , with
We have lost a major portion of the world through utter foolishness . We have kissed away entire kingdoms and provinces .
No , he comes to be married to her . Friar , you are the one who has come to marry her .
Yes , it 's definitely nippy .
My lord , the Percy family does not deserve to bear the brunt of your anger and power , especially since we helped you become so powerful in the first place .
At least I have this comfort : when you finish speaking , my troubles will also end , at sundown .
No , sir . He called you a bastard and said he 'd beat you .
But listen ! What new battle is this ? The French have reinforced their scattered men . Then every soldier must kill his prisoners . Spread the word .
Wait ! The Jew will have justice . Wait , do n't rush ! He 's not getting anything except the penalty .
I 'd rather be a weed in a hedge than a rose in my brother 's garden . It suits me more to be hated by everyone than to put on a fancy show and trick people into loving me . Though I am not a flattering , righteous man , at least you can say that I am honest about being a villain . My brother trusts me now ? Yeah -- as much as a master trusts the dog he muzzles or the peasant he " frees " by chaining a big block around the man 's foot . If my mouth were unrestrained , I 'd bite . If I were free , I 'd do what I pleased . Until that happens , let me be who I am and do n't try to change me .
Oh yes , sir , I have often been to Pisa --Pisa , City of Wise Men .
But why could n't I say " Amen " ? I desperately needed God 's blessing , but the word " Amen " stuck in my throat .
You horrid slave , you ca n't be trained to be good , and you 're capable of anything evil ! I pitied you , worked hard to teach you to speak , and taught you some new thing practically every hour . When you did n't know what you were saying , and were babbling like an animal , I helped you find words to make your point understandable . But you had bad blood in you , no matter how much you learned , and good people could n't stand to be near you . So you got what you deserved , and were locked up in this cave , which is more fitting for the likes of you than a prison would be .
As soon as you kill Prospero .
He 's certainly crossed the river Somme .
Thank you , sir .
If there 's anything more sorrowful left to add , keep it to yourself . I 'm almost ready to break down hearing this much .
As his moneybags will prove .
Oh , holy Friar , Oh , tell me , holy Friar , where is my lady 's husband ? Where 's Romeo ?
If my eyes do n't deceive me , you are my Rosalind .
Then I ca n't blame King Henry for wishing for him to starve in the wilderness . But is it right that you -- who put the crown on Henry 's forgetful head , and who carry the accusations of murder for Henry 's sake -- should be the target of the world 's curses ? When you were only accomplices and instruments ? Is it right to blame the ropes , the ladder , or the hangman for a man 's death ? Forgive me for mentioning that you two are like those sordid objects , having been exploited by this conniving King . But will you stand by while people today speak of your shame ?
Not for a second . I 'm more like an ancient Roman than a corrupt modern Dane . Some of this liquor 's still left in the goblet .
Here comes his servant . Now , Catesby , what does your lord say to my request ?
You know that I gave it to you a half hour ago .
Believe me , I 'm in really good spirits .
No , her frown would n't kill a fly . But come on , now I 'll play your Rosalind , and in a more friendly state of mind . Whatever you ask for , I 'll give .
For goodness sake , sweet wife , my honor is at stake . Nothing can redeem it except my going .
No , the one I gave you .
You are so wasted from drinking booze and loosening your pants after lunch and sleeping on benches all afternoon that you do n't even remember how to ask for what you really want to know . What the hell does it matter to you what time it is ? Unless hours were glasses of wine , minutes were chickens , clocks were whores ' tongues , sundials were whorehouse signs and the sun itself were a hot woman in a flame-colored dress , I do n't see any reason why you would need to know the time .
The news is disturbing . Labienus , with the army he led in Parthia , has conquered all of Asia , all the way to the Euphrates River , including Syria , Lydia , and Ionia , while --
I hope , sirs , that we 'll spend tonight in the same camp .
Over there , where Titinius mourns it .
It 's the quickest way to become a tailor ; tailors love to sing . Or you could teach songs to birds . If our agreements are drawn up , I 'll be gone within two hours ; come find me whenever you want .
Is that what he says ?
We respected the beat of the song , sir . So shut up !
A horse , a horse , I 'd give my kingdom for a horse !
After you .
What do you mean , get rid of him ?
I demand to be satisfied . If you refuse , let an eternal curse fall on you . Let me know . Why is that cauldron sinking ? And what is that music ?
You do n't need a ghost returning from the grave to tell you that , sir .
Go away and let me die .
Thanks , my dear lord .
Did I ever ask you to pay for any of it ?
If he fears God , he must necessarily keep the peace . If he breaks the peace , he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling .
But can I have some hope ?
The two choices are about equal , it 's true . But come , since we must be friends in the face of this new obstacle , let 's work together to find a husband for Baptista 's elder daughter , and thus free his younger daughter to have a husband , too . Then we can go back to fighting with each other . Happy the man that claims you , sweet Bianca ! And may the best man win . What do you say , Signior Gremio ?
Seriously , I think our clothes are as fresh now as they were the day we put them on in Africa , when we attended the marriage of the king 's daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis .
And I can do that fancy backward step as well as any man in Illyria .
I 'm Lorenzo , your love .
Stop ! Lieutenant -- sir , Montano -- gentlemen ! Have you forgotten your duty and your sense of decorum ? Stop ! The general is talking to you ! Stop , for God 's sake !
What are you fighting about ? Tell me .
I could have used yours as well . Forgive me , your grace . I did n't get out of bed and come here in the dead of night because I heard about the war or because I was worried about the city 's defense . I have a personal problem so painful and gut-wrenching that it overwhelms everything else .
Come on , handle your weapon . Yes , good . Very good . Very , very good . Oh , give me a little , skinny , old , dried - out , bald rifleman any day . Good job , Wart . You 're a good scab of a guy . Wait , here 's a tester for you .
I 'll chop her into pieces . How could she cheat on me ?
You can tell an artist is excellent when he denies his own perfection . Please , sing for us ; do n't make me woo you anymore !
Hit them ! Down with them ! Cut their throats ! Yahhhhh ! No - good bloodsuckers ! Overfed morons ! They hate young people like us . Down with them ! Rob them blind !
That 's what her mother always tells me .
Born in Verona . I 'm old Antonio 's son . My father 's dead , and his fortune is mine now . I hope to see good days -- and many of them .
The king is angry . See , he bites his lip .
Yes , sir ! I 'll be with you in a second . A cup of wine , sir ?
It 's another Hero !
There , that 's my girl ! Come on and kiss me , Kate .
I swear , she 's a very good-natured lady .
God forbid that I should prevent sacred devotion ! Juliet , I will wake you early on Thursday . Until then , good - bye , and keep this holy kiss .
He was like a schoolboy who finds a bird 's nest and happily shows it to his friend , who then steals it from him .
My lord , I 'll let you make the decision . I only ask to be in on your plans , the agent of his death .
Shut your mouth , woman , or I 'll shove this paper in it . --Stop , sir . You despicable criminal , read your crime . Do n't try to tear it up , madam . I take it you know what this letter says .
I 'm speaking for the king , but I look like myself .
I wo n't speak to her .
But still , she 's going to kill you for being gone so long . Or at least fire you . And would n't that be as bad for you as being killed ?
Let men die like dogs ! Give away kings ' crowns like they 're nothing ! Is n't this a sword we have here ?
That he had sex with you .
It was yours , I swear . And do you see how much your foolish wife means to him ? She gave it to him , and he gave it to his whore .
Is this really happening ? Does he reward my dedicated service with such deep contempt ? Did I work to make him king for this ? Oh , let me remember what happened to Hastings and hurry to Brecknock while I still have my head on my shoulders !
Let 's go inside . There 's going to be a storm .
Well , then , good morning to you all , my lords . Have you read the letters I sent you ?
I know , all the boys in Venice are following him , yelling , " His stones , his daughter , and his ducats ! "
I do n't like it when a villain acts nice .
They say you are a melancholy fellow .
My wickedness ?
She 's sending this ring back to you , sir . You should 've saved me some trouble and taken it away yourself . She wants you to make it very clear to your lord that she wants nothing to do with him , and that you should never come again on his behalf , unless you want to come back to tell her how he reacted to the bad news . Here , take the ring .
With all my heart .
Bury them in a manner appropriate to their noble births . Proclaim that I 'll pardon the soldiers who fled if they will return and submit to my rule . As I vowed , I will unite the York and Lancaster families .
They say he 's already in the Forest of Arden . He has many cheerful men with him , and they live like Robin Hood and his outlaws . People say that new batches of young men flock there every day , and that they all pass the time without a care , like people did in the Golden Age .
I 'll get you for that one . But here are other matters to be dealt with .
If the great gods are just , they will help the most honest men .
Also , in his letter to Iago , Roderigo criticizes Iago for telling him to get me angry while I was on guard duty , and get me demoted . And just now he admitted it , even though he 'd seemed to be dead for a long while --Iago tricked him , Iago urged him to do it .
Yes , sir , they 're ready . They 've eaten themselves sick .
I 've already slept , my lord .
I curse him , but he loves me .
She fainted at the sight of them bleeding .
Oh , my lord , terrible murders have been committed over there !
Oh , quiet , quiet ! Please , please .
" I 'll ambush you on your way home , and if you 're lucky enough to kill me -- "
I 'm a poor man who 's been humbled by many misfortunes . I 've had enough sorrow in my life to feel compassion for others . Give me your hand . I 'll lead you to some shelter .
It 's all right , since they left their food behind , and we 're hungry . Would you like to taste the banquet ?
No I wo n't , even if you were one of the worst demons in hell .
How long have you believed in astrology ?
Do you have enough love for me to be patient when my bad temper , which I inherited from my mother , makes me forget how I should behave ?
I 'll take the ring , but do n't assume I 'm giving you anything in return .
Go ahead . I 'll make myself scarce .
Blow all the trumpets . They loudly announce the news of blood and death .
I wish that were true for both our sakes !
I 'll come too .
By my faith in love , I will , then . Tell me where you live .
He 's waiting nearby to find out if you 'll invite him in .
I have no clue , my lord . But let him come . It warms my weary heart to think I 'll get the chance to look him in the eye and say , " You did this . "
Well , sir , poor delirious Lear is in town . Sometimes when he 's lucid he remembers why we 're here , and absolutely refuses to see his daughter .
What is it , my lady ?
If we actors have offended you , just think of it this way and everything will be all right -- you were asleep when you saw these visions , and this silly and pathetic story was no more real than a dream . Ladies and gentlemen , do n't get upset with me . If you forgive us , we 'll make everything all right . I 'm an honest Puck , and I swear that if we 're lucky enough not to get hissed at , we 'll make it up to you soon . If not , then I 'm a liar . So good night to everyone . Give me some applause , if we 're friends , and Robin will make everything up to you .
If you 're the lady of the house , then it 's true you 're stealing your role , because what 's yours to give away is not yours to keep for yourself . But that 's not part of what I 'm supposed to say . I 'll go on with my speech praising you , and then I 'll get to the point .
We will get revenge .
Did she see you there the whole time , old boy ? Tell me that .
Speak , Pyramus . --Thisbe , come forward .
For God 's sake , Beatrice , you 're criticizing Signior Benedick too heavily . But I 'm sure he 'll get even with you .
I have no doubt about that , since I know there is n't a man among us who is n't with me wholeheartedly , or a soul left behind who does n't wish us success and conquest .
No. Fifteen hundred infantrymen and five hundred horsemen are marching to meet Lord Lancaster , to fight against Northumberland and the Archbishop .
Your husband 's such a good man . Do n't worry , Cassio . I 'm sure you and my husband will be as friendly as you were before .
Put my tent up ! I 'll lie here tonight . But where will I lie tomorrow ? Well , it does n't matter . Does anyone know the number of the enemy 's troops ?
I understand now . From now on I 'll put up with my anguish until the anguish itself cries out , " Enough , enough ! " and disappears . I thought that thing you 're talking about was a man . It would often talk about the devil . It took me to that deadly place .
Your highness , could you send me on a mission to the ends of the earth ? I 'll go to the Antipodes for any little errand you can think of . I 'll fetch you a toothpick from the farthest reaches of Asia , or find out Prester John 's shoe size , or snatch a hair from Kublai Khan 's beard , or deliver any message you wish to relay to the Pygmies -- anything rather than exchange three words with this awful , screeching woman . Is n't there something you want from me ?
" The sleeves carefully cut . "
I hope to God Othello 's all right . I served under him , and I know what an excellent commander he is . Let 's go to the shore to get a look at the ship that came in , and to look out for Othello 's ship . We 'll stare out at the sea until the sea and the sky blur together .
Pull him away , and once he has been whipped , bring him back . Caesar 's knave will bring him a message for us .
Death is certain . Is old Double from your hometown still alive ?
Friend , I 'll give you armor made of gold . It belonged to a king .
Who tricked you ? Who treated you badly ?
What , the beautiful Ophelia ?
Bait the hook well ; this fish is going to bite .
Give me another horse ! Bandage my wounds ! Have mercy , Jesus ! --Wait , I was only dreaming . Oh cowardly conscience , how you 're torturing me ! The candles burn blue -- that means it 's the dead of night . I 'm sweating and trembling with fear . But what am I afraid of ? Myself ? There 's no one else here . Richard loves Richard , that is , there 's just me and myself here . Is there a murderer here ? No. Yes , I am . Then run away . What , from myself ? Yes , to avoid taking revenge on myself . Unfortunately , I love myself . Why ? Did I do anything good to myself ? Oh , no . Alas , I hate myself instead , because of the hateful deeds I 've committed . I am a villain . But I 'm lying ; I 'm not a villain . Fool , speak well of yourself . Fool , do not flatter yourself .
Why are you so rude to someone who loves you so much ? Save that kind of harsh language for your worst enemy .
Why is my father speaking to him so rudely ? This is the third man I 've ever seen in my life , and the first one I 've felt romantic feelings for . I hope my father takes pity on me and treats him well for my sake !
Wake Duncan with your knocking . I wish you could !
O , hell !
Can you imagine cement and stone talking better ?
Lord of lords ! Your courage is infinite . Have you returned smiling from the great battle for the world ?
Is Clarence dead ? But I reversed the death sentence .
I wonder if you 'd be so good , you lousy , rotten villain , to grant my wish and my request and gratify me , see , by eating this leek . I 'd like you to , see , because you do n't like it , and because it is n't to your taste , and because it does n't agree with you .
Those burrs I could shake off my clothing , but these are in my heart .
Of course -- when birds have no feathers and fish have no fins .
In that case , the end of the world is approaching . But you 're wrong . Let me ask you a particular question . What crimes have you committed to be sent here to this prison ?
We did , my lord , weeping and carrying on about the sobbing deer .
I 'll be sure to remember this fuss you 've made , in case you ever do fall in love . That 'll be news .
Were his wounds on his front side ?
Not me . Who are you ?
Death and damnation ! Oh !
Nothing , madam . Just my earlier request . I 'm begging you to help me get back on his good side . I 'm devoted to him with all my heart . I ca n't wait any longer . If my wrongdoing was so serious that I ca n't get back into his good graces either by my past service , or my present situation , or the promise of devoted service in the future , just knowing that would help me . Then I could stop wondering , and find some other career .
He 's dead , Caesar . Not by public execution or an assassin 's knife . He killed himself with the same hand that performed such brave acts . With the courage his heart lent his hand , his hand in turn split his heart . This is his sword . I pulled it from his wound . Look -- his noble blood is still on it .
How clever of you .
If my eyes do n't deceive me , you are my daughter .
Your master is a wise and honorable Roman . I never thought any less of him . Tell him , if he comes here , I 'll explain everything to him and , on my word , he 'll leave unharmed .
Good night to you both .
Is he married ? I ca n't hate you any more than I already do if you repeat that he is .
Yes , I will .
Many people have told me so . Actually , an old religious uncle of mine taught me how to speak , and he was brought up in the city . He knew too much about courtship , because he fell in love back there , and when he came here he constantly lectured against it . Thank God I 'm not a woman and afflicted with all the giddiness that troubles that entire sex .
One creditor showed me a ring he got from your daughter in exchange for a monkey .
Hamlet , you are so sweet and such a good son to mourn your father like this . But you have to remember , that your father lost his father , who lost his father before him , and every time , each son has had to mourn his father for a certain period . But overdoing it is just stubborn . It 's not manly . It 's not what God wants , and it betrays a vulnerable heart and an ignorant and weak mind . Since we know that everyone must die sooner or later , why should we take it to heart ? You 're committing a crime against heaven , against the dead , and against nature . And it 's irration-al , since the truth is that all fathers must die . Please give up this useless mourning of yours and start thinking of me as your new father .
Take some men and horses and go to her . Tell her everything that worries me . Add details of your own to back up what I 'm saying . Now go , and hurry back .
You 'll live to regret this .
No , come to my cabin . We 'll have the musicians play drums , trumpets , flutes . What do you say ? We 'll make Neptune hear us bid a loud good night to these great men . Play and be damned . Play loud !
Neither death nor life will stop me from coming .
Write down " Master Gentleman Conrade . " --Gentlemen , are you good Christians , and do you serve God ?
I know the knight is furious with you , so much that he 's willing to fight you to the death , but I do n't know anything else about it .
and there I am , dazed , strings around my neck , looking through the sound hole like I was in the stocks , while she calls me " worthless fiddler , " " twanging twerp , " and twenty more hateful names , as though she 'd prepared for me by composing a long list of insults to use on my behalf .
Holy Saint Francis , this is a drastic change ! Have you given up so quickly on Rosaline , whom you loved so much ? Then young men love with their eyes , not with their hearts . Jesus and Mary , how many tears did you cry for Rosaline ? How many salty tear - drops did you waste salting a love you never tasted ? The sun has n't yet melted away the fog you made with all your sighs . The groans you used to make are still ringing in my old ears . There 's still a stain on your cheek from an old tear that has n't been washed off yet . If you were ever yourself , and this sadness was yours , you and your sadness were all for Rosaline . And now you 've changed ? Then repeat this after me : you ca n't expect women to be faithful when men are so unreliable .
Let 's hope his sense of shame will send him back to Rome quickly . It 's time that we brought our armies into the field . Let 's call a council of war immediately . Pompey is making the most of our absence .
He 's changed a great deal .
Give the king the letters I 've sent , and come to me as fast as you would run from death . I 've got things to tell you that will make you speechless , and they are n't even half the story . These guys will take you to me . Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are on their way to England . I have a lot to tell you about them . Good - bye . Your trusted friend , Hamlet . " Come , men . I 'll show you where to deliver these letters as quickly as possible , so that you can take me to the man who sent them .
Oh , who cares , you 're acting like a fool . Leave me alone .
He ran this way and jumped over this orchard wall . Call to him , Mercutio .
Come out , damned spot ! Out , I command you ! One , two . OK , it 's time to do it now . --Hell is murky ! --Nonsense , my lord , nonsense ! You are a soldier , and yet you are afraid ? Why should we be scared , when no one can lay the guilt upon us?- -But who would have thought the old man would have had so much blood in him ?
Nice and short and full of good sense -- or should I say nonsense ?
Antony told me about you . He said you were a man I could trust . But I do n't worry about being deceived because I do n't need to trust . If your master wants a queen to beg from him , you should tell him that a queen will beg for no less than a kingdom . If he will grant me conquered Egypt , so that I may give it to my son , I will kneel to him with thanks .
Ha , ha ! That 's a nasty garter belt . You tie up horses by their heads , dogs and bears by their necks , monkeys by their waists , and humans by their legs . When a person 's prone to wanderlust , he has to wear wooden socks , like a chastity belt around his ankles .
Desires start in the eyes , Sustained by gazing , and desires die Very young . Let 's all mourn our dead desires . I 'll begin --Ding , dong , bell .
All this fighting is because of you . Stay where you are .
But Macbeth is . Even someone with a good and virtuous nature might give way to a royal command . But I beg your pardon . My fears ca n't actually make you evil . Angels are still bright even though Lucifer , the brightest angel , fell from heaven . Even though everything evil wants to look good , good still has to look good too .
My lord , I will help you , even if it means I have to stay awake for ten nights straight .
But he 's not better than mine .
Why , no , sir .
I know that voice .
I had a dream last night .
Yes , yes . I 'm not interested in being good .
What 's that noise ? Are n't you dead yet ? I know I 'm cruel , but I 'm merciful too . I do n't want you to linger in pain .
Not that I know of .
Someone who can ride fast , go to the duke of Norfolk . You go , Ratcliffe , or Catesby . Where is Catesby ?
Then tomorrow we 'll find that they feel only like eating , not like fighting . It 's time to put our armor on . Shall we get started ?
Well then , it looks like brown bastard will continue to be your only drink . Because listen , Francis , your white canvas shirt will get stained out there . Even in North Africa , sir , you wo n't get so much .
And to you , good sir . Tell me , do n't you have a virtuous and lovely daughter named Katherina ?
What in the world are you talking about ? It 's true that my brother 's daughter is Queen of Tunis , and heir of Naples . And it 's true those two places are far apart .
Pardon , dear father .
What does she say , pretty one ? That the tongues of men are full of deceits ?
You 're right , that 's how it is . I 'll leave you for now . If you 'd like to talk tomorrow , I 'll come to your home . Or , if you do n't mind , come to my home , and I 'll wait for you .
I tell you , this house is as dark as ignorance . And I tell you , no man has ever been treated worse than me . I 'm no more insane than you are , and I 'll prove it . Ask me any commonsense question .
Please , sir , let him go while he 's in this mood . Lord ! If she knew him as well as I do , she 'd realize how little effect a scolding has on him . At best she may come up with nine or ten abusive things to call him . That 's nothing . Once he starts on her , he 'll rant and rave on an epic scale . In fact , if she even tries to face him down , he 'll throw out a figure of speech that so disfigures her she 'll have no more eyes to see with than a cat . You do n't know him , sir .
Well , my friends praise me and make me look like an idiot , while my enemies tell me straightforwardly that I am an idiot . My enemies help me understand myself better , which is an advantage , and my friends help me lie about myself , which is a disadvantage . So if four negatives make two affirmatives , I 'm worse off because of my friends and better off because of my foes .
Are you begging , brother ?
Who are you calling " beast , " midget . You 're no bigger than three inches !
You think you can get rid of me that easily ? You killed my child . Take on someone your own size : if you kill me , boy , you 'll have killed a man .
Signor Gratiano , I beg your pardon . I did n't mean to ignore you -- it 's just because of this bloody uproar .
He wo n't accept . I 'll bet my life on it . Douglas and Hotspur are convinced that they could take on the whole world together .
So be it . I do n't want anything more .
Who could have misunderstood your assigment so completely as to lock you up like this ?
It comes from heavy sadness ; from too much reading , and too much thinking . I read about it in the reference books : it 's a kind of deafness .
Is he still alive ? Why do n't you answer me , man ?
Dearest Olivia --
Sure , he said so to make us fight cheerfully . But when our throats are cut , he could be ransomed without our being any the wiser .
See how he stands between two clergymen !
Madam , that young man out there says he 's got to speak to you . I told him you were sick . He claimed he knew that , and that 's why he 's come to speak with you . I told him you were asleep . He claimed to know that already too , and said that 's the reason he 's come to speak with you . What can I say to him , lady ? He 's got an answer for everything .
No , sir , I live by the church .
And his armies have come back ?
With his own lightning bolts ; I 've shaken up the sturdy cliffs and uprooted pines and cedars ; I 've opened up graves and awakened the corpses sleeping in them , letting them out with my powerful magic . But I surrender all this magic now , when I 've summoned some heavenly music to cast a spell , as I 'm doing now , I 'll break my staff and bury it far underground , and throw my book of magic spells deeper into the sea than any anchor ever sank .
Your hand is like a holy place that my hand is unworthy to visit . If you 're offended by the touch of my hand , my two lips are standing here like blushing pilgrims , ready to make things better with a kiss .
Lord Hamlet . --
Every man thinks it 's his duty to advise those who are overwrought with sorrow to be patient . But no man is so moral or so strong that they can endure the same advice when they themselves are grieving . So do n't advise me . My sorrow is crying too loudly to hear what you have to say .
It 's a lucky sign , is n't it ?
I used to be an honorable devoted servant who curled his hair , wore his mistress 's glove in his hat as a token of her affection , and slept with his mistress whenever she wanted . I swore oaths with every other word out of my mouth , and broke the oaths shamelessly . I used to dream of having sex and wake up to do it . I loved wine and gambling , and had more women than a Turkish sultan keeps in his harem . I was disloyal and violent . I eavesdropped . I was as lazy as a hog , as sneaky as a fox , as greedy as a wolf , as mad as a dog , and as ruthless as a lion . Do n't ever let a woman know what you 're thinking . Stay away from whores , do n't chase skirts , do n't borrow money , and resist the devil . The cold wind 's still blowing through the hawthorn tree . Dauphin , my boy , stop that . --Let the horse go by .
The rapier and the dagger .
No , Messala .
I do n't mean he 's cuckold mad . But he sure is angry . When I asked him to come home to lunch , he asked me for a thousand marks . " It 's lunchtime , " I said . " My gold , " he said . " The meat 's burning , " I said . " My gold , " he said . " Will you come home ? " I said .
Then the writer imitated the one I composed to my steed , for my horse is my mistress .
What is Hecuba to him , or he to Hecuba , that he would weep for her ? Just imagine what he would do if he had the cause for feeling that I do . He would drown the stage with his tears and burst the audience 's ears with his terrible words , drive the guilty spectators crazy , terrify the innocent ones , confuse the ignorant ones , and astound absolutely everyone 's eyes and ears . But what do I , a grim and uncourageous rascal , do ? Mope around like a dreamer , not even bothering with plans for revenge , and I can say nothing -- nothing at all --on behalf of a king whose dear life was stolen . Am I a coward ? Is there anyone out there who 'll call me " villain " and slap me hard ? Pull off my beard ? Pinch my nose ? Call me the worst liar ? By God , if someone would do that to me , I 'd take it , because I 'm a lily-livered man -- otherwise , I would 've fattened up the local vultures with the intestines of that low-life king a long time ago . Bloody , inhuman villain ! Remorseless , treacherous , sex - obsessed , unnatural villain ! Ah , revenge ! What an ass I am . I 'm so damn brave . My dear father 's been murdered , and I 've been urged to seek revenge by heaven and hell , and yet all I can do is stand around cursing like a whore in the streets . Damn it ! I need to get myself together here ! Hmm .... I 've heard that guilty people watching a play have been so affected by the artistry of the scene that they are driven to confess their crimes out loud .
What is logical , then , my lord ?
Bless you , old soul ! Your words cheer my heart .
Lord , what a headache I 've got ! My head is pounding . It feels like it 'll break into twenty pieces . My back aches too -- Ooh , on the other side -- ah , my poor aching back ! Curse your heart for sending me running all over town . I could get sick and die .
No , from the moon , I 'm telling you . I used to be the man in the moon a long time ago .
He 's no expert . He 's not doing it right . I remember up at Mile - End Park , when I was at Clement 's Inn --I played the fool in the archery pageant . There was a nimble little guy , and he would handle his weapon like this , and he would run all over the place , and he 'd charge and charge . " Rat - a - tat tat , " he 'd say . " Bang ! " he 'd say . Then he 'd run away , then come back . I never saw anybody like him .
Do so . The musicians who are going to play are now floating in the air a thousand leagues from here . They 'll be here shortly ; so sit , and listen .
Thousands of even my poorest subjects are sleeping right now . Oh sleep ! Oh sweet sleep , nature 's gentle healer , what have I done to frighten you ? You wo n't weigh down my eyelids anymore , or dull my mind to make me forget . Sleep , why do you lie in filthy hovels , stretched out on uncomfortable cots , where insects ' buzzing is the lullaby ? Why do n't you lie in the sweet-smelling bedrooms of kings , under opulent canopies , lulled with soft and beautiful music ? You drowsy god , why do you lie with the common people in their loathsome beds , leaving the royal bed lonely like a sentry post , or a bell tower ? Will you even close the eyes of a ship boy , high up on the whirling mast , and rock him gently in a cradle made of rough , tossing seas and howling winds -- winds which take the waves and , curling them over , crashes them through the air with such a deafening noise that they wake death itself ? Can you , oh unfair sleep , give rest to a drenched little sailor in the midst of such roughness , and yet deny it to a king ?
I want you to see the difference between us , so I pardon you even before you ask for a pardon . Half of your wealth goes to Antonio . The other half goes to the state . However , if you show a proper humility , I may reduce this penalty to a fine .
Then what ?
Good roaring , Lion !
Stay calm . They 're friends --Ratcliffe and Lovell .
When the sun sets , the air drizzles dew . But at the death of my brother 's son , it rains a downpour . What are you , girl ? Some kind of fountain ? Why are you still crying ? Will you cry forever ? In one little body you seem like a ship , the sea , and the winds . Your eyes , which I call the sea , flow with tears . The ship is your body which is sailing on the salt flood of your tears . The winds are your sighs . Your sighs and your tears are raging . Unless you calm down , tears and sighs will overwhelm your body and sink your ship . So where do things stand , wife ? Have you told her our decision ?
What is his name ?
To work for you , sir .
Hell and damnation ! Saddle up my horses . Call my knights together . I wo n't bother you any more , you monstrous bastard . You 're not really my daughter , but I still have one daughter left .
His letters will tell you his plans , my lord , not I.
Curse you all , you 're all murderers and traitors ! I could have saved her . Now she 's gone forever . --Cordelia , Cordelia , stay a while . Ha ? What are you saying?- -Her voice always was so soft and gentle . That 's a good thing in a woman . --I killed the scum who was hanging you .
You get trickier and trickier . You 've made the same promises to me and to Hermia -- they ca n't both be true ! They must both be false . The promises you 're making to me belong to Hermia . Will you abandon her ? If you weighed the promises you made to me against the promises you made to her , they 'd come out the same -- they both weigh nothing . They 're lies .
A nice coincidence , my lord . I 'm glad to see you .
I already have control of all the other winds , along with the ports from which they blow and every direction on the sailor 's compass in which they can go . I 'll drain the life out of him . He wo n't catch a wink of sleep , either at night or during the day . He will live as a cursed man . For eighty-one weeks he will waste away in agony .
How about the mustard without the beef .
I want to chat a bit with this wise Greek man . --What kind of philosophy do you study ?
Fine , fine . Just play your part and act as serious as a father should .
All three of them are crazy with despair . Their guilt is finally starting to gnaw at them , like a slow-acting poison . Those of you who are young and active , I beg you to follow them and keep them from doing the crazy things their guilt might push them to do .
My lord , my life is as important to me as yours is to you , and it was never as precious to me as it is now . Do you think I would be feeling as triumphant as I am if I did n't know that our situation was secure ?
Sir , I found the Prince in the next room , with tears flowing down his cheeks . He looked so sorrowful that a tyrant -- who never drank anything but blood -- would , upon seeing him , have washed the blood from his knife with tears . He 's on his way .
I 'd like to find out who I am , since the obvious signs around me wrongly indicate that I 've got daughters .
My lord , that dirty clown whom you laughed at so often is also missing . Hisperia , the princess 's gentlewoman , confesses that she overheard your daughter and her cousin praising the good looks and skills of the wrestler who recently beat the muscular Charles . Hisperia believes that , wherever they have gone , that young man is likely with them .
Your daughter and son - in - law .
Madam ?
But how ? How is that possible ? Give me details .
No , this boat 's docking here a bit longer , little sailor . --My lady , would you mind asking your giant here to back off a bit ?
Macbeth is not used to his new titles . They 're like new clothes : they do n't fit until you break them in over time .
I reach out my hand to him like this , giving him a stern look instead of my usual friendly smile --
What is this , you villain !
But he 's made us force him to listen to us . His offer is n't motivated by love ; it 's a political move .
Bring them to me .
There , Diomedes , there .
Why should we do this ? What will this do ?
I 'm just a good friend of his . In fact , I 'd do even more to him than what you 've heard him promise to do .
I am .
Please answer my prayers , Hamlet , and stay with us . Do n't go back to Wittenberg .
I am tired . Leave me alone for a minute . Oh my , my bones ache so much . I 've been running all over the place .
How is my wife ?
With her , on top of her -- however you want to say it .
I say it 's the moon that shines so bright .
I 'll write you such a glorious sonnet , Margaret , that no man will ever be able to come over it . You certainly deserve it .
Would it be better if I were that , instead of what I am ? I wish I were something better , because right now I 'm a big fool .
You can rest easy , since words are made of breath , and breathing requires that you be alive . I feel too dead to breathe a word of what you 've told me .
Good morning to you both .
No , please , speak seriously .
Just consider it . Though I seem poor , I am the man who will give you the world .
I 'm not a fan of scolds , my friend . Come , Biondello .
Yes , he 's the one who first told me about her . He 's an honest man who detests evil actions .
Come here , Pistol . Stand behind me . Oh , if I 'd had time to make new clothes I would have spent the thousand pounds I borrowed from you . But it does n't matter . These poor clothes are better ; it shows how desperate I was to see him .
So you could n't see his face , then ?
Quiet , I say . What does this mean ?
Kate ! You 're good at lying down . Come quickly , so that I can put my head in your lap .
I 'm going to go drown myself .
One of them contains my picture . If you choose that one , I 'm yours , along with the picture .
You 've changed since the last time I saw you .
Then I guess the whole world is one .
Where do you come from , sir ?
Your majesty --
But he is n't here now .
Oh , Lord , this makes me laugh ! I 'll come at you with the old proverb : " Should I make myself at home ? "
Will you come to bed , my lord ?
I came to Venice with a number of Antonio 's creditors who say he wo n't be able to avoid going bankrupt .
Unless it 's what I said , your Majesty , I have no idea .
I 'll go get them , sir .
Nothing , except your true love for my lord .
Who 's coming here ?
What is your news ?
Yes , and be wise .
He plans to go to Athens . We must arrive there before him , as quickly as our baggage train will allow us . Get a move on !
How old do you think she is ?
I 'll yield my legions and cavalry to Caesar . In this , I follow the examples of the six kings who have already surrendered .
Sir , I 'm going to go for a walk in the hall here whether the king likes it or not . It 's my exercise time . Bring in the swords , if the king still wants to go through with it and if Laertes is still willing . I 'll have the king win his bet if I can . If not , I 'll only have suffered some embarrassment and a few sword hits .
Restrain yourself , fiddler ! You 're too insistent . Have you forgotten how her sister Katherine thanked you for your lessons ?
What do you want with her , sir ?
Come on , sir , get up and get out of here ! I 'll teach you to respect your betters . If you want me to trip you again , then stick around . If not , get going . Go on . Do you know what 's good for you ? There you go .
Forget about you , you worthless girl ! You disobedient wretch ! I 'll tell you what . Go to church on Thursday or never look me in the face again . Do n't say anything . Do n't reply . Do n't talk back to me . I feel like slapping you . Wife , we never thought ourselves blessed that God only gave us this one child . But now I see that this one is one too many . We were cursed when we had her . She disgusts me , the little hussy !
This gentleman Mercutio , a close relative of the Prince and my dear friend , was killed while defending me from Tybalt 's slander --Tybalt , who had been my cousin for a whole hour ! Oh , sweet Juliet , your beauty has made me weak like a woman , and you have softened my bravery , which before was as hard as steel .
If you had n't been their father , your white hair would have inspired in them only compassion . Is this a face that should have endured the freezing winds or withstood the dreadful thunder or the terrible lightning ? To stay awake all night like a guardsman -- poor lost soul ! -- with only your thinning hair for a helmet ? I would 've let even my enemy 's nastiest dog stay inside by the fireplace on that night , even if he had bit me . And were you then happy to find shelter on a bed of hay along with swine and homeless bums ? Oh , oh ! It 's a wonder you did n't lose your life and your mind all at once . --He 's waking up . Talk to him .
Just a rhyme I learned from somebody I danced with at the party .
Really , I must ask you for some of that money .
Well , sir , because silver has a sweet sound .
There 's no way to read a man 's mind by looking at his face . I trusted Cawdor completely .
I hope those lions stay far away from him . I 'm sure he 's somewhere on the island .
No. Either tell me where you 've been , or I wo n't make any excuses for you to Lady Olivia . Lady Olivia will have you executed for not showing up .
Captain Macmorris , when we have more leisure , see , I will be so bold as to show you I know about the practice of warfare , and that 's that .
You are only a soldier . Be quiet .
Do n't talk to me , because I wo n't say a word . Do as you please , because I 'm done worrying about you .
No , Lepidus , let him say what 's on his mind . Now he slanders my honor , which is sacred to me . Go on , Caesar . What part of the agreement did I break ?
Please teach me English . I must learn to speak it . What is the word for la main in English ?
If I do , hit me with a sledgehammer . Old age and greed go together like youth and lust . Gout afflicts one and syphilis plagues the other , so there 's no point in me cursing either the old or the young : they 're both cursed already . Boy !
What do you say , Caesar ?
It wo n't be the first time someone was forced to call me that . You start , Fool . It starts , " Shut up . "
There - -you said " then . " So I 'll leave now . But before I go , let me get what I came for . What happened between you and Claudio ?
I talked with someone , my lord , who was coming from there . He was a gentleman , with good breeding and a good reputation . He swore that all this was the truth .
Oh , come on . --Come here , sir .
What 's the news , Varrius ?
We 'll burn our surplus ships and fully man the rest . We 'll sail from Actium and beat Caesar as he approaches . Even if we fail at that , we can still fight him on land .
Watch out , though , Margaret -- virgins should n't be brandishing their bucklers around .
The thane of Fife had a wife . Where is she now?- -What , will my hands never be clean?- -No more of that , my lord , no more of that . You 'll ruin everything by acting startled like this .
That he 's not angry with anyone here . If he were , he would have shown it .
What 's going on , Othello , darling ? The nobles of Cyprus whom you invited to dinner are waiting for you .
Nothing that interests me , my good lord .
A friend would never see those faults .
How can you top that ? Good night , Pompey . Dear brother - in - law , let 's leave together . This frivolity is n't appropriate to the serious purpose that brought us here . Noble lords , let 's say good night . We 've all gotten red in the face . Even the strong Enobarbus is n't immune to the effects of wine , and I 'm tongue-tied myself . This wild party has almost turned us all into clowns . What more need I say ? Good night . Good Antony , shake my hand .
Come in , Titinius ! Welcome , good Messala . Now let 's sit closely around this candle and discuss our needs .
Sadness and torment , suffering , hell itself -- she makes them almost pretty .
Really , my lord , why are you so excessively sad ?
Yes , my lord .
Please , stop ! I dare to do only what is proper for a man to do . He who dares to do more is not a man at all .
The king my father ? !
It 's only just now nine o'clock .
Well , that 's what the wife brings to the marriage . He did n't do anything to get them . Horns ? Well , there they are . Only for poor men ? No , no . The nobleman 's are as huge as the underfed villager 's . Is the single man lucky , then ? No. Just as a town protected by a wall around it is worth more than a low-lying village , a married man 's horned forehead is more honorable than a bachelor 's bare forehead . Just as it 's better to be skilled at self-defense than it is to avoid fighting , it 's better to risk a horn by marrying . Here comes Sir Oliver .
Bad news , my lord . The Bishop of Ely has fled to Richmond , and Buckingham , backed by a hardy Welsh army , is on the march . His army is growing .
Have you come to scold your tardy son for straying from his mission , letting your important command slip by ? Tell me !
Poor imitation queen , why do you align yourself with this humpbacked spider when he 's got you trapped in his deadly web ? Fool ! You 're sharpening a knife to cut yourself . The day will come when you 'll wish I could help you cast spells against this poisonous , hunchbacked toad .
You revolting braggart and hellish creature ! Your grave is gaping open , and your death is near . So take your last breath .
Petruchio , shall I be frank ? I know where you can find a shrewish and unpleasant wife . I doubt you 'd thank me in the end , but she 's rich , all right , very rich . But you 're too good a friend for me to wish her on you .
What if y , ou do ?
How excellent for Antony !
Hello , spirit ! Where are you going ?
Get lost ! You are not , Cassius .
They 're neck and neck .
You 're bothering me . I 'm not in the mood .
I 'll bet anything you like that nothing will happen , once again .
God knows why , but your mother and your brother have taken sanctuary in Westminster Abbey . Your sweet brother wanted to come meet you , but his mother would n't let him .
That 's enough ; quiet , Mouldy . You 're going . Mouldy , it 's time you were put to use .
Hello , brother Edmund . What are you thinking about so seriously ?
He 'll still parade me through Rome as a trophy of war .
I 'll meet you there in an hour .
Is that you , wife ? You could have come sooner .
You should ask instead if it 's possible that any criminal could be so rich . Because when rich villains need poor villains ' services , those poor ones can name the price .
Yes , I know her age down to the hour .
Come , my little wasp -- you 're too angry .
Yes , but who is he ?
Men are all the same , but it takes longer than a year or two to see how bad they are . They 're like stomachs and we 're just the food . They eat us up hungrily , and when they 're full , they vomit us up . Look , here comes Cassio and my husband .
Do n't you know me still ?
What stinking luck ! Do not run away .
Call in the Sheriff .
I feel that I love her .
I wish he 'd waited till things were settled before he went and got sick . We 've never needed him more than now .
" Odors , " " willing , " and " deserving . " I 'll have to remember those words so I can use them later myself .
I do n't know . I 'm afraid it will make you too hot , too . What do you say to a piece of beef with mustard ?
No , Antony . My mistress loved you , and her destiny was completely joined with yours .
Honestly , truly , in God 's name , and by all those little girly oaths that do n't actually have any power , if you break even a little bit of your promise , or if you come even a minute after two o'clock , I 'll think you the most pathetic promise breaker , the most lying lover , and the most unworthy partner for Rosalind that could be found anywhere . So beware of my contempt , and keep your promise .
No , please . I have to obey . He 's got such strong magic powers that he could conquer and enslave the god , Setebos , that my mother used to worship .
She made quite an appearance there , or else my informant invented a very flattering description of her .
I feel sorry for you .
Wo n't the ladies be scared of the lion ?
As a doornail : these things I say are true .
It 's a pity that fools are n't allowed to speak wisely about the foolish things that wise men do .
Make sure you mean what you say . Otherwise God , the ultimate King , will uncover your lies and cause you to be the death of each other .
Ma'am , my master 's coming .
Stop worrying about colors : come to lunch with me . Come , Lieutenant Pistol . Come , Bardolph . He 'll call for me tonight .
Oh , my dear friend , please do n't get too upset by these rude people who bothered you . Come with me to my house . I 'll tell you about all the pointless , clumsy pranks this thug uncle of mine has come up with , so that you can laugh at this one . You have to come with me . Please do n't say no . Damn that Toby ! He made my heart leap for you .
And I am Brutus , Marcus Brutus . Brutus , my country 's friend . Know that I am Brutus !
But you 've seen her and Cassio together .
He did n't come through the room we were in .
Yes , sir -- according to his mother , if I can believe her .
He was in a good mood , and then suddenly he started thinking of Rome . Enobarbus ?
Do n't admit to knowing anything about it . I need it . Now go , leave me .
Brother , I 'll go and bring it to you .
You have offered me the lands of Sicily and Sardinia . In return , I must clear the sea of pirates and send tributes of wheat to Rome . If I agree to this , we may leave unharmed , with our shields undented .
know what could have started this . I 'd rather have lost my legs in battle than be a part of this !
On a night like this , Dido stood holding a willow branch on the seashore , begging her lover to come back to her in Carthage .
He mentioned you to me , giving you such high marks in fencing that he exclaimed it would be a miracle if someone could match you . French fencers would n't be good enough for you , he said , since they do n't have the right moves or skills . Hamlet was so jealous when he heard Lamond 's report that he talked about nothing else but having you come over and play against him . Now , the point is ...
I think you 're denying what you really are .
But if you had to say something nice about me , what would you say ?
I saw it with my own eyes . It was an amazing sight . Here comes the good Macduff .
The Queen will be treated fairly if she gives me up ?
I did n't give her any ring . What 's she trying to say ? I hope she does n't have a crush on me ! It 's true she looked at me a lot , in fact , she looked at me so much that she seemed distracted , and could n't really finish her sentences very well . Oh , I really think she loves me ! She sent this rude messenger to tell me to come back , instead of coming herself , which would be indis -
That 's also been done , sir . The word you 're looking for is " cover . "
Even if he were as important a man as the devil -- as Lucifer or Beelzebub himself -- he 's required , see , your Grace , to keep his vow . If he backs down , he 'll become as notorious a villain and as saucy a Jack as ever walked on God 's earth , in my opinion .
And as quickly as possible , take whatever letters and clothes he gives you to the public ferry that goes back and forth to Venice . Do n't waste time talking now . Just go . I 'll meet you at the ferry .
Despite what I said , I 'll hide nearby . I 'm frightened by the look on his face , and I have doubts about his intentions .
They sound so cheerful as they hunt down the wrong prey ! Oh , you 're on the wrong track , you disloyal Danish dogs !
Well , even if he is her father , I 'm sure she would n't want to have the head of the old man on her shoulders !
The King has many men on the battlefield disguised in his uniform .
I will .
No , it does n't mean anything .
Man , they were asking for it . I do n't feel guilty about them at all . They got what they deserved . It 's always dangerous when little people get caught in the crossfire of mighty opponents .
Ha , ha , ha !
We mean well by going to this masquerade ball , but it 's not smart of us to go .
What will I say ? I can only love and be silent .
Now he 's going to say " but " --
According to what I heard , they had no travel plans as of last night .
I 'll strangle your neck for that , or I 'll die trying .
I 'll get free of you .
Make room for Antony , most noble Antony !
Farewell , Cicero
Hello . Where 's the king ?
And so I 've lost my noble father , had my sister driven insane -- my sister who once was the most perfect girl who ever lived . But I 'll get my revenge .
Yes , Padua is famous for this pleasant life , Petruchio , my son .
What did you lose , Jack ?
I 'd never do such a bad thing , not for the whole world !
Let fortune and victory be yours !
If anyone doubts this , let him put me on trial . I have danced a round , I have flattered a lady , I have been polite with my friends , smooth and cunning with my enemies . I have bankrupted three tailors . I have quarreled four times , and almost got in a fight .
This one , and I will give her to you .
A wonderful miracle !
Where is your army , then , to beat him back ? Where are your tenants and your followers ? Are n't they at this very moment on the western shore helping the rebels land safely from their ships ?
Oh , Tybalt , Tybalt , he was the best friend I had . Oh , polite Tybalt , he was an honorable gentleman . I wish I had not lived long enough to see him die .
By God , your doors were locked and you were shut out .
Was someone as beautiful as you meant to be a whore ? What have you done ? What have you done ? Oh , you streetwalker ! If I said out loud what you 've done , you 'd burn up with shame . What have you done ? Heaven has to hold its nose when it sees you ! The pure moon in the sky has to shut its eyes when you go by ! Even the wind that blows over everything on earth is ashamed to visit you . You brazen whore !
What was your dream ? Tell me .
Your words , like your wounds , bring you honor . Take him to the surgeons .
Please , no more . He can come whenever he wants . I wo n't refuse you anything .
Antonio 's a good man .
No , I 'm not wound up . But I will tell you that I seduced Margaret , the Lady Hero 's waiting woman , tonight . I called her " Hero " the whole time . She leaned out of her mistress 's bedroom window and told me good night a thousand times -- but I am telling this story poorly . I should backtrack and begin with how my master , Don John , arranged for the Prince , Claudio , and himself to witness this friendly encounter from the orchard .
By Apollo , King , you 're taking the names of the gods in vain .
Stop your evil work , vile Montague ! Can you take revenge on dead bodies ? Condemned villain , I 've caught you . Obey and come with me . You must die .
Brave Titinius ! Look , he even put the crown on dead Cassius !
A certain queen to Caesar , rolled up in a mattress .
The best plays are still only illusions , and the worst are just as good , if you just use your imagination to fill them in .
Go back again , slave , and bring him home .
You , niece . In ten days time , if you 're found within twenty miles of the court , you 'll die for it .
That you lift the death sentence on my servant , who killed a rowdy and belligerent former servant of the duke of Norfolk .
Oh wall , you 've often heard me moaning because you keep me separated from my handsome Pyramus ! My cherry lips have often kissed your bricks , which are stuck together with cement .
It looks like you 've offended it .
All right , all right . Time will tell .
I humbly say good-bye to you , father .
Let 's have one , good soldier .
Antonio and Shylock , both of you come forward .
Thank you , sir .
You 'd have a great hairstyle if you had .
Exactly . In fact , I consider ambition to be so light and airy that it 's only the shadow of a shadow .
He had to say it , it was unavoidable .
Who are you talking to ?
I 'd rather lose this battle than allow that sister of mine to come between me and Edmund .
Damned if I do n't feel sorry for him .
Oh , let us be merciful anyway .
Thank you , doctor .
No. When he wakes up , he 'll say we killed him like cowards .
She sees you with the eyes my daughter lent her , it 's true .
Oh heavens ! Oh wife , look at how our daughter bleeds ! That knife should be in its sheath on that Montague 's back , but instead it 's mis - sheathed in my daughter 's breast .
Shall I be tempted by the devil ?
The enemy 's horses are tired from the journey as well . The majority of ours are well - rested .
Romeo is hateful , even though God is n't . Oh , Romeo , Romeo , who ever would have thought it would be Romeo ?
Blow , winds ! Blow until your cheeks crack ! Rage on , blow ! Let tornadoes spew water until the steeples of our churches and the weathervanes are all drowned . Let quick sulfurous lightning , strong enough to split enormous trees , singe the white hair on my head . Let thunder flatten the spherical world , crack open all the molds from which nature forms human beings , and spill all the seeds from which ungrateful humans grow !
She was always gentle when she scolded him , even when he behaved in the worst and wildest ways . Why wo n't you defend yourself against this woman ?
He wants very much , sir , as one might say , to work for --
I know I am . But , gentle Lady Anne , let 's stop this rapid-fire argument and move more slowly . Is n't the person who caused the untimely deaths of these two Plantagenets , Henry and Edward , as much to blame as the person who actually executed the murders ?
" He who is dizzy thinks the world is spinning " -- please , tell me what you meant by that .
So I 'm free . But I did n't want to be free like this . Oh , Cassius , I 'll run far from this country to where no Romans can find me .
Yes , with a heart more eager to bear a husband 's responsibilities than a slave ever wanted freedom . Take my hand , darling .
Please do n't ask me to tell you . I might be completely wrong . I have a bad tendency to be suspicious of people and to look too closely into what they 're doing . Often I imagine crimes that are n't really there . You would be wise to ignore my weak guesses and imaginary suspicions , and do n't worry yourself about the meaningless things I 've noticed . For me to tell you my thoughts would only destroy your peace of mind , and
How is it that the prophet did n't tell me at the time that I would kill him ?
That 's me .
Do you have permission to go out and take confession today ?
You 're going to beat him up for being good ? And what 's your brilliant reason for that , please ?
You talk to him , ma'am . That 's most appropriate .
All right , go ahead . But do everything quickly . Supper must be ready at five at the latest . Make sure these letters get delivered , get the uniforms made , and tell Gratiano to come visit me soon .
He will drive the man mad pretending he thinks he 's a woman .
Who 's there ?
There is n't a nobler man than Antony in all of Rome .
What 's this ? A picture of an idiot holding a scroll up for me to read ! I 'll read it . --It looks so unlike Portia ! This outcome is n't what I hoped for , or what I deserve . " The one who chooses me will get what he deserves " ! Did n't I deserve anything more than a fool 's head ? Is this my prize ? Do n't I deserve more than this ?
What 's the point , my lord ?
These times of pain are bad times for romance . Madam , good night . Give my regards to your daughter .
And old Double 's dead ?
Mine , neither . My lord , you performed in amateur dramatic productions in college , right ?
Yes , but these English are seriously short of beef .
I wo n't deny you anything ! But in return , please , do one thing for me : leave me alone for a little while .
I guess not -- for good reason , as you 'll soon hear . First , he sends his regards .
Oh , the man who avenged her could ask anything of me !
I may not have outlived the foolishness of my youth , but I 'm not that childishly naive . Is it possible Fulvia is dead ?
Turn around , you dog from hell , turn around !
What do you have to say , noble friend ?
Me too .
Then lay that sentence on me too , my lord . I cannot live without her .
the same way , except that we 're always drunk . A good sherry wine operates in two ways . First , it rises into the brain and dries out all the foolish , dull , clogged-up fogs that have gathered there . It makes the brain sharp , quick , and inventive ; full of nimble , fiery , and beautiful ideas . The voice and tongue give birth to those ideas which , when they grow up , become excellent wit . The second power of good wine is the warming of the blood . Before wine , the blood is cold and sluggish , and this makes the liver -- the organ of passion -- chilly and pale . A chilly , pale liver is the sign of cowardice and faint - heartedness . But wine warms the blood , making it course from the inner organs to all the extremities . The blood brightens the face , and the rest of the body -- which is like a little kingdom in itself -- takes that brightening as a signal . Then the spirits of the blood and all the internal organs gather together behind their captain : the heart . The heart draws strength from these followers and , enlarged by them , can accomplish any courageous deed . This is the bravery that comes from wine . Without wine , skill in weaponry does n't matter . Wine is what sets that skill in motion . Education is nothing more than idle gold in the devil 's hands , until wine rouses it and puts it to good use . That 's how Prince Harry became valiant . He 's taken the cold blood he inherited from his father and -- like unproductive farmland -- he fertilized it , planted it , and cared for it , through the hard work of drinking vast amounts of good and potent wine . And so now , he 's become hot and courageous . If I had a thousand sons , the first rule of behavior I would teach them would be to avoid weak drinks , and get themselves addicted to wine .
Oh , poor shepherd ! Listening to you speak of your wounded heart reminds me of my own pain .
Are you trying to kill me ? jailer , i 'm your prisoner . are you going to let them break me out of jail ?
Here comes Master Signior Leonato with the sexton .
Please , do n't make fun of me . I think you came to see my mother 's wedding instead .
The king , sir , has bet that in a dozen rounds between you and Laertes , he wo n't beat you by more than three hits . You could get started immediately if you 'll give me your answer .
It was all we talked about . I kept him awake at night talking about it . He could n't eat without me talking about it . When we were alone , it was the only thing I talked about , and when we were with other people , I often found a way to mention it . All I ever did was tell him how hurtful and bad it was .
As it is God 's will and pleasure , Captain , I entreat you to come quickly to the king . There is more good fortune in store for you than you could ever imagine .
You 're his father ?
A ruined man ! This is how the whole world will end up , worn away to nothing . --Do you know who I am ?
Here , Peter Quince .
Both , both , my girl . We were pushed out of power by evil deeds , as you call them . But we were blessed in being helped toward this island .
Back when I was a schoolboy , if I lost an arrow I would try to find it by shooting another arrow in the same direction , watching the second arrow more carefully than I had the first . By risking the second arrow , I 'd often get both of them back . I 'm telling you this story for a reason . I owe you a lot , and like a spoiled kid I 've lost what I owe you . But if you 'd be willing to shoot another arrow the same way you shot the first , I 'll watch your arrow more carefully this time . Either we 'll get back all the money I owe you , or else we 'll get back what you lend me this time , and I 'll just owe you what I already owe you .
Perform the speech just as I taught you , musically and smoothly . If you exaggerate the words the way some actors do , I might as well have some newscaster read the lines . Do n't use too many hand gestures ; just do a few , gently , like this . When you get into a whirlwind of passion on stage , remember to keep the emotion moderate and smooth . I hate it when I hear a blustery actor in a wig tear a passion to shreds , bursting everyone 's eardrums so as to impress the audience on the lower levels of the playhouse , who for the most part can only appreciate loud noises and pantomime shows . I would whip a guy for making a tyrant sound too tyrannical . That 's as bad as those old plays in which King Herod ranted . Please avoid doing that .
The general should be informed about this . Maybe he 's never noticed , or he only wants to see Cassio 's good side . Do n't you think so ?
Before I open this letter , please tell me how my good friend is doing .
My name is Petruchio , son of Antonio , a man well known throughout Italy .
Madam , your advice is wise and caring . --Dorset , take advantage of the time you have . I 'll write to my stepson Richmond on your behalf , so that he 'll meet you on the way . But do n't delay .
Good to see you , Signior Hortensio . Do you know where I 'm going ? To Baptista Minola 's house . I promised to look into schoolmasters for Miss Bianca , and luck has led me to this young man , perfectly suited in learning and fine manners , well read in poetry and other books -- all of them good , I assure you .
Tell me where you 've stowed away my money , or I swear I 'll break that comical head of yours for goofing when I 'm not in the mood . Where are the thousand marks you had from me ?
The one who claims to be your wife just ran away from you .
Well , this king has uncles too , on both his father and mother 's side .
A crutch , you need a crutch -- why are you asking for a sword ?
The will ! The testament !
We will speak about this further .
Ah yes , old man . You can see the skies . They look like they 're upset about what mankind has been doing , and they 're threatening the Earth with storms . The clock says it 's daytime , but dark night is strangling the sun . Is it because night is so strong , or because day is so weak , that darkness covers the earth when it 's supposed to be light ?
So then , you must think that hairy men are honest and simpleminded .
I have news , ma'am . The British forces are on their way here .
You lie . You ca n't do that .
Tell me , cousin , I need to know if you can shake like you 've got a fever , turn pale all of a sudden , and stop speaking in the middle of a word -- as if you were driven crazy with fear .
Sir , thanks to you my friend and I have been freed from paying some awful penalties today . Instead of giving the Jew the three thousand ducats he 's owed , we give it to you in gratitude for your kind efforts .
The more I love him , the more he hates me .
How did you manage not to kill me when we argued just now ? What an irreplaceable and grievous loss ! What sickness did she die of ?
Away toward Salisbury ! While we 're talking here , a royal battle could be won and lost . Someone deliver the order that Buckingham be brought to Salisbury . Everyone else , march on with me .
Oh , he 's like a snake disguised as a flower . Did a dragon ever hide in such a beautiful cave ? He 's a beautiful tyrant and a fiendish angel ! He 's a raven with the feathers of the dove . He 's a lamb who hunts like a wolf ! I hate him , yet he seemed the most wonderful man . He 's turned out to be the exact opposite of what he seemed . He 's a saint who should be damned . He 's a villain who seemed honorable . Oh nature , what were you doing in hell ? Why did you put the soul of a criminal in the perfect body of a man ? Was there ever such an evil book with such a beautiful cover ? Oh , I ca n't believe the deepest evil lurked inside something so beautiful !
Take a tip from me , then . Those who do n't take care when they ride often find themselves thrown into a messy situation . I 'd rather have my horse than a mistress .
Bear with me . I am hungry for revenge , and now I plan to gorge myself on it . Your son Edward , who stabbed my son Edward , is dead . To even the balance , your grandson Edward is also dead , with young York thrown in because both your grandsons are n't equal to my one son . Your Clarence , who stabbed my Edward , is also dead . And the audience to this insane play -- the adulterer Hastings , as well as Rivers , Vaughan , and Grey -- have been sent early to their graves . Richard , a fiendish spy for hell itself , still lives , but only long enough to buy souls to send below . Soon , very soon , he will meet his ghastly and well deserved end . When he dies , the earth will gape open , hell will burn hotter , devils will roar , and saints will pray to get him out of here fast . I pray that God ends his life before I die , so I can say , " The dog is dead ! "
You peasant dog , are you calling me a host ? I swear , I scorn the word . My Nell is n't going to be taking any lodgers .
A sail ! A sail !
Why could n't you be attended by my servants , or by Regan 's ?
You 're making a terrible racket out here ! Lady Olivia told her servant Malvolio to kick you out of the house . I swear it 's true .
The tragic actors from the city , the ones you used to enjoy so much .
You do n't have to ; I do it of my own free will .
There is a way , ma'am . Nature heals people with rest , which Lear has n't had . But there are many herbs that will help him rest and take his mind off his anguish for a while .
I do n't know what to say .
Yes , I swear .
You 're a lowlife , a rascal who eats leftover scraps . You 're an ignoble , arrogant , shallow , vulgar , pretentious , conceited , filthy third-rate servant who thinks he 's something special . You 're a cowardly lawyer - loving bastard ; a vain , brown - nosing , prissy scoundrel who 'd pimp himself out to advance his career ; a bag lady . You 're nothing but a lowlife , a beggar , a coward , and a pimp , the son and heir of a mutt bitch . I 'll beat you until you whine and cry if you deny the least bit of this .
My lord , I wo n't miss it .
Into thin air . Their bodies melted like breath in the wind . I wish they had stayed !
Oh , except for the widow Dido ? That 's right , except for the widow Dido .
A sincere plea from the king , who commands the respect of England , and who hopes that the love between the two countries can flourish , and that peace can join them in friendship -- and other fancy mumbo jumbo like that -- saying that , once they read this document , without any debate , the ones delivering the letter should be put to death immediately , without giving them time to confess to a priest .
It 's a play about ten words long , which is the shortest play I 've ever heard of . But in my opinion , it 's about ten words too long . That 's why it 's tedious . In the entire play , not one word is well - written , and not one of the actors is right for his part . It 's tragic because Pyramus kills himself . I have to admit that when I saw his suicide during rehearsal , I had tears in my eyes -- but they were tears of laughter .
Right -- he 's a natural-born idiot . Besides being a fool , he 's argumentative . If he did n't have the coward 's gift for backing down from a fight , they say he 'd be dead by now .
And your experience makes you sad . I 'd rather have a jester to make me happy than experience to make me sad -- and to travel for all that trouble , no less !
Boy !
Good morning , my friends . Valentine 's Day is over .
So you 'll go to hell ?
Oh , my dear Cassio ! My sweet Cassio ! Oh , Cassio , Cassio , Cassio !
Honestly , it 's not as good as the other one , and I 'm sure your cousin will agree with me .
Not old enough to be a man , but not young enough to be a boy . He 's like a bud before it becomes a pea pod , or like a little green apple before it gets big and ripe . He 's somewhere between boy and man . He 's very handsome and speaks well , but he 's very young . He looks like he just recently stopped breastfeeding .
This is the devil Flibbertigibbet . He gets up at nightfall and wanders around till dawn . He can make your eyes squint and film over and give you a harelip . He rots ripened wheat and hurts the poor creatures of the earth . Saint Withold crossed the field three times , He met a she - demon and her nine kids , He told her to promise To stop doing harm . And go away , witch , go away .
So what 's happened ?
I 'm coming , do n't worry . If I miss this , let me be boiled alive .
You want to stake the money down now ?
No way , he 's too late . Tell your master that .
glorious victory , I 'll come to you and proudly say that I am your son . I will wear a garment made of blood , and my face will be stained by a bloody mask which , when washed away , will clean me of my shame . This will be the day , whenever it happens , that this famous and honored child -- this brave Hotspur , this highly praised knight -- will meet your disregarded Harry in battle . I wish that every honor he 's earned were multiplied , and that every one of my shames were doubled . For the time will come when I 'll make this youth from the north exchange his glorious deeds for my embarrassments . Percy is working for me , my lord . He 's collecting glories on my behalf , and I 'm going to hold him strictly accountable for them . He 'll either have to surrender every last one of those glories to me , no matter how small , or I 'll tear them right out of his heart . This I promise you , in the name of God . And if God allows me to do these things , then I beg you to heal the wound caused by my long years of bad behavior . If not , then my death will cancel all my debts . I would rather die a hundred-thousand deaths than break even the smallest part of this promise .
Hero thinks Beatrice will surely die , for she says she 'll die if he does n't love her , and that she 'll die before she tells him , and she 'll die if he woos her and she 's made to hold back even one of her usual insults .
Do n't , it 's no big deal . Do n't bother with it . Let me deal with this .
This is a difficult to see even in a beggar . In a king , the sight is unbearable . He has a daughter good enough to cancel out the wickedness of the other two .
And after I have sat and listened to reason , what 's my prize ?
Please , leave me alone . I intend to be flesh and blood , not airy philosophy , for there has never yet been a philosopher who could endure a toothache patiently , even though they all write as if they had risen above human suffering and misfortune .
I 'll challenge that proverb with one of my own : " There is flattery in friendship . "
Kneel then , and wash .
You 're all looking at me strangely . You , most of all . I think you 're certain that I do n't love you .
They probably woke up early to celebrate May Day and came here for my celebration when they heard I 'd be here . But tell me , Egeus . Is n't today the day when Hermia has to tell us her decision about whether she 'll marry Demetrius ?
Yes , it 's a done deal , the documents are ready , and my two schoolmates , whom I trust about as much as rattlesnakes , are in charge . They 're the ones who 'll lead me on my march to mischief . Let it happen . It 's fun to watch the engineer get blown up by his own explosives , and with any luck I 'll dig a few feet below their bombs and blow them to the moon . Oh , it 's nice to kill two birds with one stone . Now that I 've killed this guy , I 'll be off in a hurry . I 'll lug his guts into the next room . Mother , have a good night . This politician who was in life a babbling idiot is now quiet and serious . Come on , sir , let 's get to the end of our business . Good night , mother .
My lord , I 'd want to have the gift you promised me on your honor : the earldom of Hereford and all the possessions that go with it .
You 're a villain to say this about me . I 'll prove that I 'm an honest man and a man of honor if you dare defend yourself .
Is that true , Nerissa ?
My lord , my ensign is an honest and trustworthy man . He 'll accompany my wife , and bring whatever else you think I might need .
And did n't you wake up during this terrible agony ?
My meaning is nasty , for it 's you I mean .
The worthy Thane of Ross .
Well , kid , let 's see you fight . Come on , I 'll show you how .
Around nine o'clock , madam .
Will you meet me right away at Ninny 's grave ?
Come on , out with it . Get to the point .
In that case , it must be fate . That 's the way of the world . For every man who 's faithful to his true love , a million end up running after a different lover .
If I were cut into pieces , I 'd make four dozen bearded broomsticks like this Master Shallow . It 's amazing to see the similarity between his men 's dispositions and his own . They watch him and behave like foolish judges , and he , by associating with them , turns into a judge - like workman . Their spirits are so closely joined by their intimate involvement , they 're like a flock of wild geese that fly in formation . If I needed a favor from Judge Shallow , I would make his men think that I 'm a close friend of his . If I needed something from his men , I would flatter Shallow by telling him that no one commands servants better than he does . One thing 's for sure : the behavior of a wise man and that of an idiot are contagious , like diseases . They spread from person to person , which is why people must be careful about
I never knew a woman who loved a man so much .
There 's a willow that leans over the brook , dangling its white leaves over the glassy water . Ophelia made wild wreaths out of those leaves , braiding in crowflowers , thistles , daisies , and the orchises that vulgar shepherds have an obscene name for , but which pure - minded girls call " dead men 's fingers . " Climbing into the tree to hang the wreath of weeds on the hanging branches , she and her flowers fell into the gurgling brook . Her clothes spread out wide in the water , and buoyed her up for a while as she sang bits of old hymns , acting like someone who does n't realize the danger she 's in , or like someone completely accustomed to danger . But it was only a matter of time before her clothes , heavy with the water they absorbed , pulled the poor thing out of her song , down into the mud at the bottom of the brook .
If my doing what you told me to makes you happy , then be happy , because I did it .
More knocking !
Everything 's ready . How soon will the master be here ?
That since she 's mad herself , she 's married a madman .
Oh , it 's horrible of her .
You 're welcome here . I did n't write about breaking the alliance with Antony until I saw you were being misled and realized how dangerous it would be to keep postponing preparations . Cheer yourself . Do n't be troubled by the present situation , the obligations of which must ruin your happiness . Do n't worry about things that have already been decided by fate . Welcome home to Rome . Nothing is more precious to me than you . You have been unbelievably abused , and now the gods make us the dispensers of justice . Be comforted . You will always be welcome to me .
Then I 'll get to the point . A little while later , he overthrew King Richard . Soon after that , he killed him . And right after that , he raised taxes on everyone . To make matters worse , he allowed his kinsman Mortimer -- who by rights ought to be the king -- to be imprisoned in Wales , and remain there without ransom . He tried to use my victories to disgrace me , and tried to trap me with spies . He dismissed my uncle from his royal Council , threw my father out of the royal court , broke promise after promise , and committed crime after crime . In conclusion , he forced us to raise this army for our own safety , and to question his claim on the crown , which we believe is too flimsy to stand .
That 's what I want you to tell me . Let me remind you of our old friendship , our youth spent together , the duties of our love for each other , and whatever else will make you answer me straight .
But who is that ? A sane person would never dress like this .
You see , we 're not alone in our unhappiness . This wide , universal theater has more sad plays than our own little scene .
The fool 's a good actor . A good fool .
Bring the dessert in right away , and make sure there 's enough wine to toast Cleopatra 's health .
He is close to death , but not dead yet . Look out the other window ; his guard has brought him here .
What kind of man is he ?
On the platform where we stand guard , sir .
Alas , my lord , your confidence is getting the better of your wisdom . Do n't go out today . Say that it 's my fear that keeps you inside and not your own . We 'll send Mark Antony to the senate house , and he 'll say that you 're sick today . Let me , on my knees , win you over to this plan .
He recognizes me like a blind man recognizes a cuckoo -- by its bad voice .
She 's ready to go , but she 'll never return . Oh son ! On the night before your wedding day , death has taken your wife . There she lies . She was a flower , but death deflowered her .
Fellow soldiers and my loyal friends suffering under that tyrant Richard , we have marched all the way to the center of England without encountering any opposition . And now we receive encouraging news from my stepfather Stanley : Richard -- that violent , greedy boar who roots through your summer fields and ripening vines , guzzles your warm blood , and makes his trough in your disemboweled bellies -- is now near the town of Leicester , only one day 's march from us here in Tamworth . In God 's name , let 's continue on in high spirits , my courageous friends . Our aim is to achieve everlasting peace from this one violent war .
Madam !
Where is kind Hastings ?
Rosalind , I have to leave you for two hours .
Yes , I see . -- What should I call her ?
He 's turned your curse against you , Margaret .
Then there would be two cousins lying sick in bed : one hurt by reasons and the other gone crazy without any .
Your Highness , you were the one who introduced me to my husband , Antipholus , and suggested I marry him . On this terrible day , a most outrageous fit of madness possessed him . It made him run desperately through the streets with his servant , who is just as mad . He angered all the citizens by rushing into their houses and taking rings , jewels , and anything else he felt like . At one point I managed to get him tied up and sent home so that I could make some order out of all the trouble he caused . But somehow , he broke free from his guards . Then he and his crazy servant found us and chased us away with swords . We got more help and came back to capture them , but then they fled into this abbey . We tried to go in , but the abbess stopped us . She would n't let us get him and she would n't send him out . So please , most gracious duke , order her to bring him out so we can get him some help .
Oh , then I guess she was old and gentle , and you rode barelegged , like an Irish yokel .
She 's the one I was talking about , the general 's wife . The brave Iago was put in charge of bringing her here , and he 's arrived a week sooner than we expected . Dear God , please protect Othello and help him arrive here safely , so he and Desdemona can be in each other 's arms , and Othello can cheer us up and bring comfort to Cyprus .
I think it really must be yours , since you 're the one lying in it .
Were n't you banished on pain of death ?
Excuse me , sir , it will . These gray lines that lace the clouds are the beginnings of the dawn .
I was willing to condemn my brother to death , but you want me to pardon a peasant ? My brother did n't kill anyone . He was only to blame for some thoughts he had . But his punishment was bitter death . Who pleaded with me to pardon his life ? Who , when I was in a rage , kneeled at my feet and told me to reconsider ? Who talked about brotherhood ? Who talked about love ? Who told me how the poor man abandoned the mighty earl of Warwick to fight for me ? Who told me how he rescued me in the field at Tewksbury , when Oxford had me down , saying , " Dear brother , live and be a king " ? Who told me how , when we both lay in the field freezing to death , he wrapped me in his own clothes and spent a numbingly cold night naked ? I forgot all of this in my brutish anger , and not one of you had the grace to remind me . But when your servants get drunk and kill someone , you go right down on your knees for " pardon , pardon . " And , though he does n't deserve it , I have to grant your request . But not one of you would speak up for my brother . And I did n't speak to myself on his behalf , either . The best of you owed something to him in his lifetime , but none of you would plead for his life . Oh God , I fear your justice will destroy me and all of these men , and their families and mine , because of this ! Come , Hastings , help me to my room . Oh , poor Clarence .
Good heavens , those are difficult directions . Can you tell me if a man named Launcelot , who lives with him , is still there ?
Happy indeed , the way we have spent the day . Gloucester , we have done deeds of charity , turning enmity into peace and hate into love among these mistakenly angry nobles .
Hey , are you biting your thumb at us ?
Goodbye , nephew . I 'll talk to you when you 're in a better mood to listen .
Angelo , the jeweler . Do you know him ?
I will catch up with you , Cleopatra , and weep for your forgiveness . It 's the only way left , because now any extension of my life would be torture . Since the light of my life has gone out , I 'll stop here . Now any effort ruins what it attempts . Yes , even power gets in its own way . End it , then , and everything is over . --Eros! --I 'm coming , my Queen ! --Eros! --Wait for me . In the place where souls recline on beds of flowers we 'll walk hand in hand and amaze the other ghosts with our spirited demeanor . Those famous lovers , Dido and Aeneas , will lose their admirers , and the whole place will be devoted to us . --Come , Eros . Eros !
Thank you , Tubal . Good news , good news ! Ha , ha , heard in Genoa .
What are you waiting for , lords of France ? Those island - bred skeletons , terrified for their bones , are an offensive sight on the morning field . Their ragged banners hang in shreds and the very air of France makes them shiver as it blows by . The god of war looks like a pathetic bankrupt in this miserable army , peeking timidly through a rusty visor . The horsemen stand frozen like candlesticks , torches in their hands . The poor
The English army is advancing on us at full strength . It is more important that we respond majestically than that we respond carefully . Therefore the dukes of Berri , Bretagne , Brabant , and Orleans shall advance , and you , Prince Dauphin , will swiftly entrench and fortify our fortress towns with men of courage and the means to defend themselves . The king of England 's approach is as forceful as a whirlpool . It is right for us to prepare like people who are afraid , as we 've been taught by the recent lessons given us by the deadly and underestimated English on our own soil .
You 're going to rest while you 're still damned ? God help you , foolish man . Pray God does some surgery on you : you need to be fixed .
Lear 's suffering has finally put him to sleep . This rest might have calmed your shattered nerves . It will be difficult for you to get better now that rest is impossible . Come on , help me carry your master . You ca n't stay here .
Be careful not to fall in .
Tell me , all of you , what punishment does a person deserve who conspires to kill me with witchcraft and who has already plagued my body with black magic ?
What animal , you brute ?
We 're at your service , whatever you say .
That 's a good reprimand , suitable for reminding even the best of men to guard against negligence . Canidius , we 'll fight him at sea .
Actually , it 's my arm .
What 's wrong , cousin ? Why have you collapsed ?
Would you like to be king of the entire world ?
Is n't this war against me ? Why should n't I be there in person ?
This hand gives itself away very freely . In the old days , people used to give their hearts to each other when they joined their hands in marriage . But these days , people give each other their hands without their hearts .
Well , all right , let 's say hypothetically that I do get a chance to speak with her , my lord . What do I do then ?
You gave us the slip , sir , the slip . Ca n't you understand what I 'm saying ?
Well , you 'll see it with your own eyes . You 'll see the difference between working for Shylock and working for Bassanio . -- Jessica ! --You wo n't eat like a pig like you used to do at my place . --Jessica! --And sleep , and snore , and wear your clothes out . --Jessica , I 'm calling you !
Good sir , calm down .
The storm separated us .
Help , son ! Help , Signior Baptista !
My lord the ruler of Burgundy , I 'll speak to you first . You 've been competing with this king for my daughter . What 's the least that you will settle for as a dowry ?
Are you sure of that ?
Let me live here forever . Such a wonderful father-in-law and wife make this place a paradise .
I did n't realize he knew her .
By faith and honor , our wives mock us , telling us brazenly that our vigor has been so bred out of us that they plan to give their bodies to the lusty youth of England to resupply France with men who , though bastards , will at least be warriors .
What does he look like ? How old is he ?
That 's a very natural display of affection . There 's no face more sincere than one washed in tears . And it 's definitely better to cry because you 're happy than laugh because you 're sad !
Oh gentle lady , my news is n't fit for your ears . If I repeated it to you , it would kill you as soon as you heard it .
Good shining , Moon ! --Really , the Moon shines very well .
It 's my place to take care of my husband and nurse him back to health . It is my duty and mine alone . So let me take him home .
Did you see the gloomy Lord Northumberland ?
If you offered me six times that , I would n't accept it . I would choose to take my penalty .
That 's our offer .
No , ma'am , they have n't . But a messenger came ahead to tell us they were on their way .
This lantern represents the moon . I myself am playing the man in the moon --
No , that 's impossible . Her heart will break first .
No , you ca n't do that until you take her hand and , in front of this friar , swear to marry her .
Signor Valentio and his cousin Tybalt , Lucio and the lively Helena . " That 's a nice group of people . Where are they supposed to come ?
That 's her father and his friends , who 've been roused out of bed . You 'd better go inside .
Miranda -- the very name means " admired ! " You are indeed admired , more than anything else in the world ! I 've looked at many ladies with pleasure , and been
And should everyone who makes promises and breaks them be hanged ?
In that case , leave when you like , Laertes , and spend your time however you wish . I hereby grant your request , and hope you have a good time . And now , Hamlet , my nephew and my son --
Oh , unfaithful lover ! You should be filling vials with your tears . Seeing how you take Fulvia 's death , I can see how you would react to mine .
Yes , but they do n't see anything .
Hush , do n't talk .
Then hurry up and tell me what you want .
In that case I , of all the men in the world , have won the maid , by your explicit promise . Gremio is outbid .
No money , I swear . But I 'll play a trick on you . I 'll call you a minstrel .
And Benedick is not the worst husband I can think of . This much I can say about him : he is well - born , has proven his bravery in battle , and has established his good character . Hero , I 'll show you how to influence your cousin so she falls in love with Benedick . We men will trick Benedick so that , despite his quick wit and his queasiness about marriage , he will fall in love with her . If we can do this , then we will steal Cupid 's glory . We will be the supreme love gods ! Come inside with me , and I will tell you my plan .
I am a knight , sir . My name is Coleville of the Valley .
The East is very seductive . I have you to thank for my trip here ; I would n't have left Egypt otherwise , and I have benefited from it .
Now , Harry , where are you coming from ?
Answer , you withered old trunk , answer .
It 's a feeling , but nothing I can put into words . But you had better get back to Egypt again .
Hello there , my lord of Worcester ! It is n't right that you and I are meeting under these circumstances . You have betrayed my trust . You forced me to put aside my comfortable peacetime clothing and instead have made me crush my old body into hard , military armor . That is n't right , sir , that is n't right . What do you have to say about it ? Will you untie this ill-tempered knot of hateful war ? Will you return to my loyalty ? When you circled me , your King , in your obedient orbit , you shone beautifully and naturally . Now you blaze like a comet : a fearful omen , and a signal that evil will be released into the future .
Malcolm is now the prince of Cumberland ! To become king myself , I 'm either going to have to step over him or give up , because he 's in my way . Stars , hide your light so no one can see the terrible desires within me . I wo n't let my eye look at what my hand is doing , but in the end I 'm still going to do that thing I 'd be horrified to see .
Who does he accuse ?
And if he ever has a wife , let her be more miserable when he dies than I am now . Guards , let 's continue on to Chertsey monastery , carrying this holy burden you picked up at St. Paul 's monastery .
" Who are your parents ? " " I was born to a higher position than I 've got now . But I 'm still fairly high - ranking . I 'm a gentleman . " Yes , I 'm sure you are . Your way of talking , your face , your body , your behavior , and your sensitive soul all prove you 're a gentleman . Ah , no . Calm down , calm down . If only his lord were more like him . How strange I 'm feeling ! Can someone fall in love this quickly ? I can feel this young man 's perfection creeping in through my eyes like some kind of disease , slowly and invisibly . Oh , well . --Malvolio! Come here !
Do n't pity me . Just listen carefully to what I have to tell you .
You come from heaven , do n't you ?
Why only a few courtiers , my lord of Buckingham ?
You were tricked into fighting , Gloucester . According to the laws of war , you did n't have to fight a stranger . You have n't lost this fight ; you 've been tricked and deceived .
I 'll go get Beatrice for you , who can walk here by herself -- she has legs .
A good servant , a very good servant , Sir John . By God , I had too much wine with dinner . A good servant . Now sit down , sit down . Come on , cousin .
I do n't understand it . How could he be in debt without me knowing it ? Tell me , was he arrested because of a band ?
Hero is his only child , and his only heir . Do you like her , Claudio ?
My Lord of Norfolk --
But who are you ?
Sir , I 'm made of the same stuff as my sister and consider myself just as good as she is . She 's described my feelings of love for you precisely , but her description falls a little short of the truth . I reject completely any
God forbid he wants to challenge me !
What is , my lord ?
My lord , he refuses to come .
I think nothing , my lord .
That may be true , my lord . Ah , dear Nature , my goddess , listen to me ! Change your plans if you ever intended for this woman to have children . Make her sterile and dry up her womb so that no baby will ever come out of her body and honor her . If she must give birth , make her child a bad seed who will torment her , give her a forehead wrinkled with worry , make her cry until her cheeks are sunken .
Then stay with us . There 's still a bit of daylight in the sky . Now all the late travellers are hurrying to reach their inns . Banquo is almost here .
You can see for yourself . You asked for justice , so rest assured you 'll get more justice than you bargained for .
I will not rise until your Highness hears me .
I have received letters that say the same .
As I get to leech him , I will show some mercy . Follow me .
You were a murderous villain , and you still are .
My lord , please , listen to me .
Yes , but in the ladies ' eyes , it 's youth that flourishes .
Sir , let me be clear . As far as the youngest daughter , the one you were asking about , is concerned , the father refuses any suitors access to her . He will not promise her to any man until the elder sister is married . Then and only then will the younger be free to marry .
Whom should we look for in the castle?- -Whose job is it ? Send something along to prove you 're withdrawing the orders .
I do n't know , Maecenas . Ask Agrippa .
I hope he enjoys her .
May Heaven put an end to this foolish fantasy of your Honor 's ! How terrible that a man of your influence and noble family , with so much wealth and an excellent reputation , should be infected with such a horrible illness !
Then you told a lie , a sick , wicked lie . I swear on my soul it was a lie . You said she slept with Cassio . Did you say Cassio ?
I like you , good Feeble . Who 's next ?
Sir Topas , Sir Topas , good Sir Topas , please go find my lady Olivia --
Hello , brother .
Caesar , you are revenged with the very same sword that killed you .
Come , sweet Audrey . We have to be married properly . Otherwise , we 'll be living in sin . --Goodbye , Sir Oliver . We 're not singing , Oh , sweet Oliver Oh , sweet Oliver Do n't leave me behind -- but , Go away , wind Go , I say , I 'm not going to marry you .
Give me your hand . I 'll praise your actions to this powerful enchantress so that she will thank you with blessings . Oh , light of the world , wrap your arms around my armored neck . Leap , with all your finery through my armor and go straight to my heart . There you can ride upon my heartbeats , sharing in my triumph .
You need to learn what ants know well about winter -- there 's no point in slaving away if there 's no hope for profit . Serving the king will get you nowhere . Everyone can see that , and even blind men can smell the stench of his misery now . When you see a huge wheel rolling down a hill , you should n't try to hold on to it or it 'll break your neck .
And how many times did you say his beard was n't cut well ?
If we happen to offend you , it 's because we want to . We do n't want you to think we came here to offend you , except that we want to offend you with our good intentions . Our plan to show off our little bit of talent will wind up getting us executed . Please keep in mind we 're only here out of spite . We do n't come here with the intention of making you happy . We 're absolutely not here to delight you . The actors are ready to come out and make you sorry . By watching their show , you 'll find out everything you 're likely to know .
You talk like a child , but you 're very smart anyway .
Hold on , take this . Tell Jessica I wo n't fail her . Tell her in private . --Go , gentlemen , get ready for the masquerade tonight . I have someone who can be my torchbearer .
Truly , gentlemen , this is a chancy piece of business . I 've made a risky investment .
I also heard that your daughter spent eighty ducats in Genoa one night .
Why not ? Were n't we both born under Taurus ?
Hello , Tubal . Any news from Genoa ? Did you find my daughter ?
--Right , Lucillius .
Why , madam ?
Draw it .
My God , sir , you 're stubborn and suspicious . We come here to help you and you treat us like thugs , but you let an African horse climb all over your daughter . Your grandsons will neigh to you like horses . Your whole family will be ruined .
It 's easy for someone to joke about scars if they 've never been cut .
Send a message to his brother . Bring that swinger Orlando here . If he 's not around , bring his brother Oliver to me . I 'll make Oliver find him . Do this immediately , and do n't stop searching and interrogating until you 've brought home these foolish runaways .
Here you go , Wart . Present arms ! Right shoulder , arms ! Left shoulder , arms !
intended for the realm of France . Nor did the French possess the Salic land until four hundred twenty-one years after the death of King Pharamond , incorrectly thought to be the founder of the law . He died in the year 426 , and Charles the Great conquered the Saxons and settled Frenchmen in the region beyond the river Sala in the year 805 . Besides , according to the French historians , King Pepin , who deposed Childeric , based his own claim to the crown of France on his descent from Blithild , the daughter of King Clothair . Another case : Hugh Capet , who usurped the crown from Charles the duke of Lorraine - -sole male heir in a direct line from Charles the Great -- passed himself off as heir to Lady Lingare , daughter of Charlemagne , who was the son of Lewis the Emperor , in order to give his claim to the throne more validity . Another case : King Lewis the Tenth , who was sole heir to the usurper Capet , could not rest easy as king until he was assured that Queen Isabel , his grandmother , was a direct descendent of the Lady Ermengare , daughter of the aforementioned Charles duke of Lorraine , by which marriage the line of Charles the Great was reunited with the throne of France . Thus , it should be clear as day that King Pepin 's title , Hugh Capet 's claim , and the resolution of King Lewis 's doubts all plainly derive from the female .
What can I do for you ?
They finished their business with Pompey , and Pompey has left . Now the three triumvirs are putting their official seals on the treaty . Octavia weeps at the thought of leaving Rome . Caesar is in a sober mood . And Menas reports that Lepidus has been hungover since Pompey 's party .
This is not the time for dwelling on personal grievances .
In the beautiful city of Verona , where our story takes place , a long-standing hatred between two families erupts into new violence , and citizens stain their hands with the blood of their fellow citizens . Two unlucky children of these enemy families become lovers and commit suicide . Their unfortunate deaths put an end to their parents ' feud . For the next two hours , we will watch the story of their doomed love and their parents ' anger , which nothing but the children 's deaths could stop . If you listen to us patiently , we 'll make up for everything we 've left out in this prologue onstage .
Does n't it look like the king ?
You think his feelings are n't true ?
Are you serious ?
I know that 's what you think now , but people change their minds . Often our intentions are strong at first , but as time goes on they weaken , just like an apple sticks to the tree when it is unripe but falls to the ground once it ripens . The promises we make to ourselves in emotional moments lose their power once the emotion passes . Great grief and joy may rouse us to action , but when the grief or joy have passed , we 're no longer motivated to act . Joy turns to grief in the blink of an eye , and grief becomes joy just as quickly . This world is not made for either one to last long in , and it 's no surprise that even our loves change along with our luck . It 's still a mystery to be solved whether luck controls love , or love controls luck . When a great man has a run of bad luck , watch how followers desert him , and when a poor man advances to an important position , he makes friends with the people he used to hate . Love is unreliable . A person with lots of money will always have friends , while one fallen on hard times makes an enemy of any friend he turns to for money . But back to my original point -- what we want and what we get are always at odds . We can have our little dreams , but the fates decide our futures . You think now you 'll never remarry , but that thought will die with me , your first husband .
No. You bring it in case I ca n't make it .
Sir , please take him up on his offer and go back with him .
Me ?
Oh , have mercy ! Take pity on me !
He was more faithful to me than the sun is to the daytime . Would he have snuck away from me while I was asleep ? I 'll believe that when I believe that there 's a hole through the center of the earth , and the moon has passed all the way through to the other side . The only possibility is that you 've murdered him . A murderer should look like you do , so pale and grim .
Oh ho , I know her little tricks . --Okay , I 'll go .
You 're in a good mood tonight , my lord .
I 've told you .
This battle will determine who wins the war . Take care of yourself . Have you heard about anything unusual happening in the city ?
Death , which has taken her away to make me cry , now ties up my tongue and wo n't let me speak .
You were known as lusty Shallow back then , cousin .
Good luck . If we meet Macbeth 's army tonight , let us be beaten if we cannot fight .
Excellent .
No , I did n't do anything as violent as that , though we would 've been justified in shedding a little blood over the matter . The whole quarrel might have been resolved since then when we repaid what we stole from them -- which most of our city did , for the sake of friendly trade relations . I was the only one who refused to give back what I stole . That 's why I 'll pay dearly if they find me here .
Please forgive me , master . I 'll be obedient and do all my tasks without complaining .
at you . I 'll make him tell me the whole story again -- where , how often , how long ago -- and when he plans to sleep with your wife in the future . I 'm telling you , just watch his face . But stay calm , and do n't get carried away by rage , or I 'll think you 're not a man .
Oh , forgive me !
Hey , brother . Tell me , where is my nephew , your son ? Has he taken care of the music ?
I will not excuse you . You will not be excused . Excuses will not be allowed . No excuse will do . You will not be excused . Hey , Davy !
He 's dead .
It 's a shame that we eagles are caged up while the vultures are free to do whatever they please .
She speaks my language ! My God , I 'm the highest-ranking person who speaks this language -- if only we were back where it 's spoken .
We heard this news five days ago . The Earl of Westmoreland left today , along with my son Lord John of Lancaster . Harry , you 'll go next Wednesday . On Thursday , I will go myself . We 'll meet at Bridgenorth . Harry , you will march through Gloucestershire . Given the amount of time we 'll all need , we should come together with our full forces at Bridgenorth twelve days from now . There 's a lot to do , so let 's go . Our enemies will take advantage if we 're slow .
Excellent ! Sounds like you 've got a good trick in mind .
Good day to both of you .
I believe it completely . Early in the morning I 'll go visit Desdemona and plead my case . My situation is desperate .
I bet I know , too : someone who clearly does n't know him at all .
Stars , my lord .
Indeed , he is good-looking and carries himself well .
Am I a new life ?
Oh , darling Orlando , it 's so hard to see you wearing your heart in a sling .
How beautiful the moonlight 's shining on this bank ! Let 's sit here and let the music fill our ears . Stillness and nighttime are perfect for beautiful music . Sit down , Jessica . Look at the stars , see how the floor of heaven is inlaid with small disks of bright gold . Stars and planets move in such perfect harmony that some believe you can hear music in their movement . If you believe this , even the smallest star sings like an angel in its motion . Souls have that same kind of harmony . But because we 're here on earth in our earthly bodies , we ca n't hear it .
My feelings are satisfied -- even though what you have done to my father and sister should drive me to revenge . Yet when it comes to my honor , I ca n't forgive you so fast . I will accept no apology until experts in matters of honor show me how to make peace with you without staining my own reputation in doing so . Until then I will accept your love as love .
Really , I think your other ruff is better .
Use your clubs and spears ! Hit them ! Beat them down ! Down with the Capulets ! Down with the Montagues !
Sir , such a life with such a wife is unlikely ! But if you have the stomach for it , you 'll have all the help from me you need . Do you really mean to go after this wildcat ?
Shush , sir , please !
Yes , sir , he 's here at the door right now and asks to see you .
Do n't be angry with me for acting so quickly . If your intentions toward me are honorable , come with me and this holy man into the chapel over there , where you can soothe all my worries by making your marriage vows to me . The priest will keep it secret until you 're ready to make the news public and we can throw a full marriage celebration that befits my social standing . What do you say ?
Go to Richmond , and good luck . You go to Richard . I hope good angels will protect you . You take sanctuary in the Abbey and think good thoughts for us . I will go to my grave , where I can look forward to peace and rest . I have witnessed eighty - odd years of sorrow ; for each hour of joy I 've experienced , I 've suffered a full week of misery .
Why did I ever get married ? I 'm sure this good and honest man sees and knows more , much more , than he 's telling me .
Awaken the memory of those valiant ancestors and with your own powerful arm make their deeds live again . You are their heir and sit on their throne , and the blood and courage that glorified them run in your veins . You , my most powerful sovereign , are in the very prime of youth , ripe for glorious deeds and great enterprises .
Oh , is that so ? And what would you give me for the handkerchief ?
A thousand hearts beat in my chest . Let 's advance our flags , set upon our enemies , and have our ancient saint of courage , good Saint George , inspire us with the fury of fiery dragons ! Let 's go ! Victory is with us .
I 'm telling you " No. "
Says who ?
Is she a Capulet ? Oh , this is a heavy price to pay ! My life is in the hands of my enemy .
Here is his Majesty .
Want ? Yes , I want it , and I 'll get it .
I bet you 'll be forced to bring Deformed forward .
I think you are Sir John Falstaff , and so I surrender .
Farewell , kind lord . Fight valiantly today . But then I do you wrong to say as much , since you are the very embodiment of bravery .
Our supplies will be short for the party . It 's already almost night .
Twenty crowns ? That 's a bet I 'd make on my hawk or my hound . I 'd wager twenty times as much on my wife .
How are you doing , Cassio? --Someone bring me a stretcher !
Well , you know he sometimes walks here in the lobby for four hours at a time .
Only what , I hope , will please God above and all good men on this island , which currently has no king .
You 're a spirit , I know . Where did you die ?
He would n't say that .
Villain , you do n't know the laws of God or of man . Even the fiercest wild animal has some touch of pity .
But did my brother prompt you to do all this ?
Let me go .
That will never happen . Who can command the forest and make the trees pull their roots out of the earth ? These were sweet omens ! Good ! My murders will never come back to threaten me until the forest of Birnam gets up and moves , and I will be king for my entire natural life . But my heart is still throbbing to know one thing . Tell me , if your dark powers can see this far : will Banquo 's sons ever reign in this kingdom ?
For Brutus 's sake , I am indebted to you .
Go tell the hunters to blow their horns and wake them up .
No , I 'd rather you stayed here . My luck is pretty bad right now , and it might rub off on you . So just let me say goodbye and face the bad stuff alone -- otherwise I would n't be thanking you very well for all you 've done for me .
His breath stinks .
Sir John , do me a favor : leave me and the Prince alone . I 'll spell out such good reasons for this adventure , he 's sure to join .
Tell her to come here . Go .
I beg your pardon , except for the widow Dido .
You lie .
Why , what 's the matter ?
I mean , we 're wasting the light of our torches by delaying , which is like wasting the sunshine during the day . Use your common sense to figure out what I mean , instead of trying to be clever or trusting your five senses .
Whatever your highness commands me to do , it is always my duty to do it .
Well put . Come on . Call out my household servants .
There 's certainly not a boy left alive , and it was done by the cowardly rascals who were running from the battle . On top of this , they 've either burned or carried away everything that was in the king 's tent . So the king has quite rightly ordered that every prisoner 's throat be cut . Oh , he 's a gallant king !
Well , you 've given away all your other rightful titles . The title of " fool " is the only one left .
Now Macbeth feels the blood of his murdered enemies sticking to his hands . Now , rebel armies punish him every minute for his treachery . The soldiers he commands are only following orders . They do n't fight because they love Macbeth . Now he seems too small to be a great king , like a midget trying to wear the robes of a giant .
We can do that tomorrow , sir . First we should make sure you have somewhere to stay .
Three words , dear Romeo , and then it 's good night for real . If your intentions as a lover are truly honorable and you want to marry me , send me word tomorrow . I 'll send a messenger to you , and you can pass on a message telling me where and when we 'll be married . I 'll lay all my fortunes at your feet and follow you , my lord , all over the world .
But maybe you do n't like mine , or his , or hers either .
If he has my father 's love , then that 's enough honor for me . Enough of this . No more talk about my father ; you 'll be whipped for slander one of these days .
Then she falls down to her knees , weeps , sobs , beats her breast , tears her hair , prays , and curses : " Oh sweet Benedick ! God give me patience ! "
You have to go to the royal court immediately , sir . A dozen captains are at the door waiting for you .
Are n't you my father ?
My master is being difficult . If I do as he asks I think I know which one of us will be sorrier -- and it 's not going to be him !
The candle is burning in your study , sir . While I was looking for a flint to light it , I found this paper on the window , sealed up like this , and I 'm sure it was n't there when I went to bed .
Just die , you lowlife ! Go ahead and die , you nasty , rude bastard ! You 're more scared of drowning than we are .
Well , that 's a fine answer . I seem to remember a saying : " Only a fool thinks he 's wise ; the wise man knows that he is , in fact , a fool . " When one self-described philosopher wanted to eat grapes , he opened his lips when they entered his mouth , thereby making the theoretical point that grapes were made to be eaten , and lips to open . Do you love this girl ?
Excuse me . I 'll drink it if I like .
My darling Othello !
Oh , damn three times , damn ten times the evil man whose wicked deed deprived you of your ingenious mind . Hold off burying her until I 've caught her in my arms once more .
I 'm right behind you . Be bold , and get ready .
Do n't curl your lips in scorn . They were made for kissing , not for contempt . If your vengeful heart ca n't forgive me , here -- take my sword and bury it in my heart so that my soul , which adores you , can be free . I open myself to being stabbed . In fact , I beg for death on my knees .
Oh , what misery !
He 's laughing already !
I beg your pardon , sir --
Get out of my sight !
I see you 're all eaten up with emotion . I 'm sorry I said anything . You want proof ?
Then let it take the losers ' side . To winners , nothing seems unpleasant .
Come on , come on .
We 'll chase ' em into their latrines . I still have room for six more wounds .
He 's a soldier . If I accused a soldier of lying , he 'd stab me .
Yes , those are the best clothes . But , gentle Nurse , please leave me alone tonight . I have to say a lot of prayers to make the heavens bless me . You know that my life is troubled and full of sin .
As a favor to me ?
If you wish to speak of love , speak more softly .
Do n't tell me that . When the barrel 's empty , we 'll drink water . Not one drop sooner . Therefore , drink up . --Servant-monster , drink a toast to me .
They would n't dare . They could n't , they would n't . It 's worse than murder to humiliate a king 's messenger like this . Tell me as quickly and clearly as you can what you did to deserve this punishment , or what made them think they could inflict it on you .
Because she 's not quite a fish and not quite a mammal . A man would n't know where to put her .
Is this the king we offered to ransom ?
A good mount for me -- and that 's the highest praise and very definition of a good mistress , that she belong to one alone .
What man is that ?
And he would have deserved it too . Pyramus is worth six pence a day , or it 's worth nothing !
My most feared father , it is certainly appropriate for us to arm ourselves against the enemy , because even in peace time , when no war or conflict is at hand , a kingdom should not lose its edge , but always be ready -- with defenses , men , and training -- as though it expected a war . Therefore , I agree that we should all go and inspect those French territories that are weak . Let 's do it with no show of anxiety -- no , with no more fear than if we 'd heard that the English were busying themselves with folk dancing . Because , my good king , England is so poorly led , her scepter so foolishly borne by a vain , silly , shallow , impulsive youth , that she 's hardly a threat .
Richmond ! The last time I was in Exeter , the mayor kindly showed me the castle there and called it " Rougemont . " The name startled me because an Irish poet once told me that I would die soon after seeing " Richmond . "
A good name . Were you born here in the forest ?
I do n't like that " paying back . " It means twice the work !
Do n't come in here , uncle ! There 's a spirit in here ! Help me , help me !
He 's a good fellow , I can tell you that much . Not afraid to fight , he 's a feisty one . He 's dead and rotting in the dirt now .
Did Cicero say anything ?
Cleopatra --
I do n't make fortunes ; I only see them .
Does anyone know who committed this horrible crime ?
Has the King given Prince John his full authorization to listen to our complaint , and address it in any way the Prince sees fit ?
Indeed I do , sir , and I 've come to let you in on a certain problem . I 've been informed by certain sources I ca n't disclose that your younger brother Orlando plans to fight me in disguise . Tomorrow , sir , I 'm fighting for my reputation , and any man who gets away without a broken bone or two is an exceptional wrestler indeed . Your brother is young and inexperienced , and because of my affection for you , I 'd hate to crush him -- though I 'd have to , if he challenged me . I 'm telling you all this out of affection for you , so you can either keep him from carrying out his plans or prepare to accept his disgrace , which will be his own fault , not mine .
We 'll see them immediately . Bring them right in .
My lord , Hamlet 's going to his mother 's room . I 'll hide behind the tapestry to hear what they say . I bet she 'll chew him out . And as you said , it 's good to have someone other than a mother listening in on them , since she can be too partial to him . Goodbye , my lord . I 'll stop by before you go to bed , and tell you what I 've heard .
No , just toward your own peace of mind . If he 's come back to Denmark without plans to continue on his trip , then I 'll trick him into an undertaking , which I 'm working out now , that 's sure to kill him . When he dies , no one will be blamed , even his mother will call it an accident .
Your husband , being saddled with a shrew , projects his own suffering onto my husband . And now you know my meaning .
Come here , boy . It 's no time for jokes : sober up . Tranio and I have traded clothes to save my life . I killed a man in a fight since we came ashore , and I 'm worried someone saw me . While I make my escape , I need you to wait on Tranio as though he were me . Understand ?
A thin face , which you do n't have ; a sleepless , sunken eye , which you do n't have ; an irritable temper , which you do n't have ; a neglected beard , which you do n't have -- but that might not be so telling , since you do n't have much beard anyway . Your stockings should be falling down around your ankles , your hat flying off your head , your sleeves unbuttoned , your shoes untied , and everything about you demonstrating carelessness and misery . But you 're no such man . You 're so neat and well put-together that you look like you love yourself more than anyone else .
A love song , a love song .
of phrase deserve to be praised . " Accommodated ! " It comes from the Latin , " accommodo . " Very good . That 's a good turn of phrase .
I bet it will .
Go into the bedroom and see for yourself . What 's in there will make you freeze with horror . Do n't ask me to talk about it . Go look and then do the talking yourselves .
dusk and all night long sleeps in peace . Come morning , he wakes and helps the sun into his chariot and so wears out the ever - rolling years until his death . Apart from ceremony , this poor creature who spends his days in toil and his nights in sleep is better off than the king . The peasant enjoys his country 's peace without ever worrying his dull head about the vigil the king must keep to maintain that peace .
Is that so ?
Then please , sir , set aside your knighthood and your soldiership and let me tell you that you 're a deliberate liar , if you say I 'm anything other than an honest man .
Will you come with us ?
As sane as me ? Then you really are insane , if you 're no saner than a fool .
May God 's blessing go with you and with all who turn bad into good , and enemies into friends !
A ghost , a ghost ! He says his name 's Poor Tom .
What 's the problem ?
I see you do n't intend to part with her -- or perhaps you do n't like my company .
These are the messengers from my sister and the king .
No. He wo n't say anything anymore . Honest Iago 's arranged that .
Fool , I 'll repay you for this favor . Please , hurry .
How could disdain die when you 're here ? When you 're around , even Lady Courtesy becomes Lady Disdain .
Go , hide behind the arras . The rest of you , go upstairs . Now , my men . Here 's wishing for an honest face and a clear conscience .
Nah , I do n't care what their names are ; they owe me nothing . Will you sing ?
Let 's treat him according to his virtue , with all the respect and rituals of burial . His body will lie in my tent tonight , with the honorable observance that suits a soldier . So order the armies to rest , and let 's go home to share the glories of this happy day .
Now , sir , what 's this holy secret you wanted to tell me ?
No , I wo n't stay a second longer .
You need to do more than hang around -- you have to act . I 'll show you how .
Dear God ! All is lost , all ! Regret and everlasting shame sit on our helmets , mocking us .
If it 's that important , then let the women die . It would be a pity to throw them away for nothing , but if it 's a matter of choosing between them and a great cause , then they 're worthless . If Cleopatra hears even a breath of this , she 'll die immediately . I 've seen her claim to be dying twenty times before , and for far less reason . I think there must be something invigorating about death , since she dies with such enthusiasm .
the company they keep . I 'll come up with enough material about this Shallow to keep Prince Hal laughing nonstop for a year . That 's how much time it takes for the current fashion to change six times , or for two lawsuits to be completed . He 'll laugh with no intermission . Oh , a lie told with a measure of truth -- or a joke told with a serious face -- will go far with a young fellow , who has never had his shoulders weighed down by old age or worries . Oh , he 'll laugh until his face looks like a wet coat that was hung poorly -- it 'll be all wrinkled from laughter .
I met my father in the woods yesterday and had a long conversation with him . He asked me who my parents were , and I told him they were as good as he was . He laughed at that and let me go . But why are we talking about my father , when a man like Orlando exists ?
I 'm happy to meet you , my lady and my wife .
It 's the right way to act when a villain like him shows up . I wo n't tolerate him .
Very near , my master .
Go do what you do best , madam . Leave us alone for our hanky-panky , and shut the door behind you . If somebody comes , give a shout . That 's your job , your job . Go on , hurry !
Oh , I had a miserable night . I had such dark and terrifying dreams that I swear I would n't spend another night like that if it guaranteed me a whole lifetime of happy days .
Indeed , he 's not right for this .
He has both my power and my influence over Octavia .
The hell with you all ! Give me my horse , you deadbeats . Give me my horse and the hell with you !
I wo n't build you any more dams to catch fish , Or fetch you firewood when you order me to , Or clean the plates , or wash dishes . ' Ban , ' ban , Ca-caliban Has a new master . So get a new servant . Freedom , what a wonderful day , wonderful day , freedom , freedom , wonderful day , freedom !
Oh my God , what have you done ?
Down goes everything in their path . Indulge us further and supplement our performance with your own imaginings .
Quiet , there !
You can go straight to hell ! What you have to offer is nothing anyone wants . Hortensio , our desire to be married is n't so great that we ca n't wait this out patiently . It 's tough on both of us , but I guess we 'll live . So long . But to prove my love for Bianca , I 'm going to see if I can find a good tutor to give her lessons in the things she enjoys . If I do , I 'll send him to her father .
That 's what you get for marrying Christian husbands . I have a daughter . I wish she 'd married any one of Barabbas 's descendants instead of a Christian ! --We 're wasting time . Please , deliver the sentence .
What support did we have besides our father ? And now he 's gone .
May God protect you , sir .
Hurry to your husband . Show him this letter . The French army has landed . --Find the traitor Gloucester .
Hail !
He is my father , sir , and I have to tell you -- you look a little like him .
Yes , I 've been responsible for his upbringing . I 've had to acknowledge that he 's my son so many times that now I can do it without embarrassment .
Here , sir , this is a ring she asked me to give you . Hurry up , it 's getting late .
Give my regards to Hastings , Catesby . Tell him the nest of dangerous enemies that plagued him for years will die tomorrow at Pomfret . And tell him to give Mistress Shore one extra kiss to celebrate this good news .
Tybalt is dead , and Romeo has been banished . Romeo killed Tybalt , and his punishment was banishment .
I 'll be back quicker than you can think a thought .
He got there too late . The ship was already sailing . But once he got there , the duke learned that Lorenzo and his lover Jessica were together in a gondola . In any case , Antonio assured the duke they were n't with Bassanio on his ship .
Are you going to provoke me ? Alright , let 's fight , boy !
Titania sleeps there sometimes at night , lulled to sleep among the flowers by dances and other delights . Snakes shed their skin there , and the shed skin is wide enough to wrap a fairy in . I 'll put the juice of this flower on Titania 's eyes , and fill her with horrible delusions and desires . You take some of it too , and look around in this part of the forest . A sweet Athenian lady is in love with a young man who wants nothing to do with her . Put some of this flower 's juice on his eyes , and make sure to do it in such a way that the next thing he sees will be the lady . You 'll be able to tell it 's him because he 's wearing Athenian clothes . Do it carefully , so that he 'll end up loving her more than she loves him . And then make sure to meet me before the rooster 's first crow at dawn .
Sir Richard Ratcliffe , let me tell you this . Today you will witness a person die for truth , duty , and loyality .
His uncle Worcester put him up to that . It is just like Worcester to act against you in all ways . He 's the one making Hotspur behave like this , flaunting his youth in the face of your dignified age .
Oh luck , luck . Everyone says you ca n't make up your mind . If you change your mind so much , what are you going to do to Romeo , who 's so faithful ? Change your mind , luck . I hope maybe then you 'll send him back home soon .
Tell us how it happened , noble Casca .
It 's amazing how much happier some people are than others ! People throughout Athens think I 'm as beautiful as Hermia . But so what ? Demetrius does n't think so , and that 's all that matters . He refuses to admit what everyone else knows . But even though he 's making a mistake by obsessing over Hermia so much , I 'm also making a mistake , since I obsess over him . Love can make worthless things beautiful . When we 're in love , we do n't see with our eyes but with our minds . That 's why paintings of Cupid , the god of love , always show him as blind . And love does n't have good judgment either --Cupid , has wings and no eyes , so he 's bound to be reckless and hasty . That 's why they say love is a child . because it makes such bad choices . Just as boys like to play games by telling lies , Cupid breaks his promises all the time . Before Demetrius ever saw Hermia , he showered me with promises and swore he 'd be mine forever .
" De arm , " madam .
I do n't really want to do this , but he 's given me good reasons . I guess it 's only one man -- no big deal . My sword comes out , and he dies .
You 're a funny man , sir . Take care .
likely to return any injury promptly . Follow and see to it that nothing serious happens between them . You come with me , uncle of Exeter .
The river has flooded three times , without receding between floods . The old people -- those living history books -- say that the last time this happened was when our great - grandfather , King Edward , fell ill and died .
Our action will seem too bloody if we cut off Caesar 's head and then hack at his arms and legs too , Caius Cassius -- because Mark Antony is merely one of Caesar 's arms . It 'll look like we killed Caesar out of anger and Mark Antony out of envy . Let 's be sacrificers but not butchers , Caius . We 're all against what Caesar stands for , and there 's no blood in that . Oh , how I wish we could oppose Caesar 's spirit -- his overblown ambition -- and not hack up Caesar himself ! But , unfortunately , Caesar has to bleed if we 're going to stop him . Noble friends , let 's kill him boldly but not with anger . Let 's carve him up like a dish fit for the gods , not chop him up like a carcass fit for dogs . Let 's be angry only long enough to do the deed , and then let 's act like we 're disgusted by what we had to do . This will make our actions seem practical and not vengeful . If we appear calm to the people , they 'll call us surgeons rather than murderers . As for Mark Antony -- forget him . He 'll be as useless as Caesar 's arm after Caesar 's head is cut off .
Sir , I 've done all this work for you since I left you last .
I know she is a hateful , brawling scold . If that 's all , gentlemen , I see no problem .
An infamous lie ! I accuse you in the name of the king . Arrest him : he 's a friend of the duke of Alencon 's .
Hush , Hortensio . You do n't know what money can buy . Tell me her father 's name -- that 's all I need . I will go after her even if her scolding is as deafening as thunder in an autumn rainstorm .
I do n't know what to say . Well , give me your hands . God give you joy , Petruchio . Call it a match !
I thank you , lady .
Come here , Proculeius . Tell her we mean her no disrespect . Give her whatever assurances you feel she needs to keep her from killing herself . I need her alive , so that I can exhibit her in my triumphal procession and gain eternal fame . Go , and hurry back to bring us her reply and news of her state of mind .
Please , sir ; crack jokes over lunch . My mistress made me hurry here . If I go back without you , she 'll punish your faults by breaking my head open . I should think that your appetite would act like a clock and bring you home on its own , without the need for a messenger .
But I hear he has n't . They say my son York has almost passed him in height .
Tomorrow , and then every day after that . Come on , let 's go inside . I want to show you some clothing , so you can tell me what I should wear tomorrow .
Sir , Ensign Pistol 's downstairs . He wants to talk with you .
Come here , you wretch ! What , have you forgotten me ?
No more talk about killing yourself , okay ?
I 'm going to laugh myself to death over this silly monster . A rotten , foolish monster . I could find it in my heart to beat him --
Look , here comes our honored hostess ! Sometimes the love my subjects bring me is inconvenient , but I still accept it as love . In doing so , I 'm teaching you to thank me for the incovenience I 'm causing you by being here , because it comes from my love to you .
Just think of me , having been married to her for three months , sitting around majestically --
You 're letting yourself get carried away with these horrible thoughts . You 'll see that Caesar is giving you no reason to do so .
Because my name is George .
No , you wo n't die yourself , but only by proxy . This world is almost six thousand years old , and in all this time not one man has ever actually died from love . Troilus may have wanted to die from love , and he 's now considered one of the great , tragic love heroes , but , in fact , a Greek with a club beat his brains out . It had nothing to do with love . Leander would have lived many more years if it had n't been for a particularly hot summer night , when he went swimming in the Hellespont , got a cramp , and drowned . The foolish poets of the time insisted he died for love , but they 're lying . All the love stories are lies . Men have died from time to time , and worms have eaten them , but not because of love .
I was known as anything , I swear . And I would have done anything too , and all the way , too . I was there , and little John Doit from Staffordshire , and black-haired George Barnes , and Francis Pickbone , and Will Squele , from the Cotswolds . Since then , no law college
mistakes , I stumbled and fell . It 's often the case that having something makes us spoiled , while not having it turns out to be advantageous . So may it be with my eyesight . Oh , my dear son Edgar , how enraged I was at you when I was deceived . If I live long enough to touch you again , that would be as good as having my eyesight back .
Thirty ships . Now they 've turned around and are clearly heading for Cyprus . Signor Montano , your brave and loyal servant , gives you this information and asks you to send reinforcements to relieve him .
Who are you ? What do you want ?
Les doigts ? Good lord , I forget les doigts . But it will come to me . The word for les doigts , I believe , is " de fangres . " Yes , " de fangres . "
Caesar wrote for him to come to Rome .
If you 're my friend , you 'll let me see his letter .
Or just a foretaste of it ?
I 'm certain that , if my actions are fairly considered , your majesty will find no just reason to hate me .
What secrets between you have kept you from following us to Leonato 's ?
I 'm everywhere . Foolishness is all over the world , just like sunshine . I 'd be sorry if people thought your master was less familiar with foolishness than my mistress is . I think I saw you there , you wise man .
No , first let 's talk to him .
What men ?
She 's sick of a qualm , she is .
Your death and destiny advise your followers to escape .
And who are you , good sir ?
Let it be who it is . Romans today still have the powerful bodies of their ancestors , but , unfortunately , we do n't have their manly spirits , and instead we take after our mothers . Our tolerance for slavery and oppression shows us to be weak , like women .
Be a nice fool and help me find a candle and some paper . I tell you , I 'm as sane as any man in Illyria .
By the gods , it 's disgraceful for you to pull my beard .
And you 've stretched that so far that if it were n't " here apparent " that you 're the " heir apparent , " your credit would n't be worth a thing . But listen , pretty boy . Will England still have hangmen when you 're king ? And will a thief 's courage still be thwarted by that nasty old clown , the law ? When you 're king , do n't hang thieves .
Speak plainly , make your meaning clear , my son . A jumbled confession can only receive a jumbled absolution .
So you 've dared him to single combat .
He has no friends except those who are too afraid to defy him . In his greatest need , even they will desert him .
The young Prince has misled me . I 'm the man with the big belly , and he 's the dog who walks in front of me .
You 're trying to trick me , my lord .
You hit my servants , and your disorderly mob of knights treat their superiors like servants .
I do . I will .
Why , the he that will marry this woman . Therefore , idiot , abandon the society of this female -- maybe you 'll get it if I say " woman , " instead . Say it all at once , now : abandon the society of this female , or , simpleton , you 'll perish . Let me put it in a way you 'll understand : you 'll die . Or , rather , I 'll kill you , or I 'll do away with you , or I 'll turn your life into death and your freedom into captivity . I 'll poison you , or beat you with a club , or stab you with a sword . I 'll bandy you about and overwhelm you with my cleverness . I will , in other words , kill you in three hundred and fifty ways . Therefore , tremble with fear and leave .
the opposite direction of its prey , yet can follow the scent of the hunt . A man who puts people away before the verdict is announced .
Great Duke , be merciful to mortal men . Calm your rage , your manly rage ! Calm your rage , great Duke ! Dear man , calm your rage . Be lenient , dearest !
I wonder if Titania is awake yet , and if she is , I wonder what the first thing she saw was . Whatever it is , she must be completely in love with it now .
My prayers , you hussy ?
Is your name Coleville ?
Then you can tell how sick the kingdom is . There are serious diseases spreading through its body , very near its heart .
Show .
Oh , the poor man !
You liar ! You said those exact things to me back in the marketplace .
Spiders with your webs , stay away . You long-legged things , begone !
I 'm not sure , but I 'm afraid he might be .
Let the gods who stirred up this dreadful storm bring their enemies to light . Any wretched person who has committed secret crimes and escaped justice should tremble in fear now . Better hide now , you murderers , you perjurers , you incest - practicing people who pretend to be virtuous . Tremble and shake , villain , for secretly plotting against human lives . Let all your bottled-up crimes come flooding out at last , as you beg for
I thank you very much on his behalf .
Is this the work of an ambitious man ? When the poor cried , Caesar cried too . Ambition should n't be so soft . Yet Brutus says he was ambitious , and Brutus is an honorable man . You all saw that on the Lupercal feast day I offered him a king 's crown three times , and he refused it three times . Was this ambition ? Yet Brutus says he was ambitious . And , no question , Brutus is an honorable man . I am not here to disprove what Brutus has said , but to say what I know . You all loved him once , and not without reason . Then what reason holds you back from mourning him now ? Men have become brutish beasts and lost their reason ! Bear with me . My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar , and I must pause until it returns to me .
Goodbye , old lady . Goodbye , lady , lady , lady .
Maybe you lost your hopes about me where I found my doubts about you . Why did you leave your wife and child vulnerable -- the most precious things in your life , those strong bonds of love ? How could you leave them behind ? But I beg you , do n't interpret my suspicions as slander against you . You must understand that I want to protect myself . You may really be honest , no matter what I think .
I 've got another weapon in the room . It 's a Spanish sword , hardened in ice cold water and razor sharp . Here it is . Uncle , I 'm coming out !
A sailor 's wife had chestnuts in her lap and munched away at them . " Give me one , " I said . " Get away from me , witch ! " the fat woman cried . Her husband has sailed off to Aleppo as master of a ship called the Tiger . I 'll sail there in a kitchen strainer , turn myself into a tailless rat , and do things to him --
He 's alive and victorious , and Mercutio 's dead ? Enough with mercy and consideration . It 's time for rage to guide my actions . Now , Tybalt , you can call me " villain " the way you did before . Mercutio 's soul is floating right above our heads . He 's waiting for you to keep him company on the way up to heaven . Either you , or I , or both of us have to go with him .
No , sir , I 'm not biting my thumb at you , but I am biting my thumb .
I 'll have Herod 's head chopped off ! But now that Antony 's gone , who will do it for me ? Come closer .
The sun will not appear today . The sky frowns and scowls on our army . I wish there was n't so much dew on the ground . So , the sun wo n't shine today ! Well , why should that be worse for me than it is for Richmond ? The same heaven that 's frowning on me looks gloomily on him .
Or else they were very different ages --
You 've got to be crazy to trust a wolf that pretends to be tame , a horse that seems healthy , a teenager in love , or a whore who swears she 'll be faithful .
I ca n't kiss -- that 's just how it is -- but farewell .
This is the air , that 's the glorious sun . I can feel and see this pearl she gave me . I may be dazed and confused , but I 'm not insane . Where 's Antonio , then ? I did n't find him at the Elephant . But he 'd been there before me , and they told me he 'd gone out looking for me . I could really use his advice right now . I feel sure this situation is due to some mistake , and I do n't think I 'm crazy . But this sudden flood of good luck is so unbelievable that I 'm ready to distrust my own eyes and my own rational mind when they tell me I 'm not insane -- maybe the lady 's insane . But if that were the case , she would n't be able to run her house , command her servants , listen to reports , make decisions , and take care of business as smoothly as she does . There 's something going on that 's not what it seems . But here she comes .
Helena , it 's not true .
You will outlive the Queen .
Leave me for a bit .
He must have bought a cast-iron pair of Diana 's lips : an elderly nun is n't anymore devoted in her kissing than he is . His kiss is cold and chaste .
Ready .
Groan ? No. But tell me seriously who it is .
This must surely be the goddess that the music is being played for ! --Please , I beg you to answer me , tell me if you live on this island , and tell me how I should behave here . My main question , which I save for the last , is --Oh , you marvelous creature ! -- are you a maiden or a goddess ?
They say he cried out against sherry .
My lord , feel better ; take courage .
Would n't your Lordship prefer some imported wine ?
Truly , my friend , he is n't nearly as impressive as you are .
Well , then , help me .
No , if you 're ever late like this again , I 'll refuse to see you . I 'd rather be wooed by a snail .
Oh , there 's been a lot of quarreling .
I scolded you for obsessing about her , not for loving her , my student .
He 's welcome too .
What an excellent idea -- he 'll soak up the wine !
On my honor .
Put a candle in my study , Lucius . Call me when it 's lit .
Tonight let 's have plenty to eat .
Junk , cheap junk . I gave them away to bakers ' wives , to sift flour with .
Macduff , this passionate outburst , which proves your integrity , has removed my doubts about you and made me realize that you really are trustworthy and honorable . That devil Macbeth has tried many times to trick me and lure me into his power , and prudence prevents me from believing people too quickly . But with God as my witness , I will let myself be guided by you , and I take back my confession . I take back all the bad things I said about myself , because none of those flaws are really part of my character . I 'm still a virgin . I have never told a lie . I barely care about what I already own , let alone feel jealous of another 's possessions . I have never broken a promise . I would n't betray the devil himself . I love truth as much as I love life . The lies I told about my character are actually the first false words I have ever spoken . The person who I really am is ready to serve you and our poor country .
If you thought that you 'd be thinking too much .
Most powerful lord , my mistress Cleopatra sent me to you .
I 'll use it for fish bait . You ca n't eat human flesh , but if it feeds nothing else , it 'll feed my revenge . He 's insulted me and cost me half a million ducats . He 's laughed at my losses , made fun of my earnings , humiliated my race , thwarted my deals , turned my friends against me , riled up my enemies -- and why ? Because I 'm a Jew . Does n't a Jew have eyes ? Does n't a Jew have hands , bodily organs , a human shape , five senses , feelings , and passions ? Does n't a Jew eat the same food , get hurt with the same weapons , get sick with the same diseases , get healed by the same medicine , and warm up in summer and cool off in winter just like a Christian ? If you prick us with a pin , do n't we bleed ? If you tickle us , do n't we laugh ? If you poison us , do n't we die ? And if you treat us badly , wo n't we try to get revenge ? If we 're like you in everything else , we 'll resemble you in that respect . If a Jew offends a Christian , what 's the Christian 's kind and gentle reaction ? Revenge . If a Christian offends a Jew , what punishment will he come up with if he follows the Christian example ? Of course , the same thing -- revenge ! I 'll treat you as badly as you Christians taught me to -- and you 'll be lucky if I do n't outdo my teachers .
I beg you not to do this , my lord . He 's done wrong , and his master the king will punish him for it . But the kind
Crisscrossed ?
Notice , my friends , how closely this hunter follows his prey .
Do n't forget our talk last night , and try to be patient . We 'll take care of this problem soon . --Gertrude , have the guards keep an eye on your son . A monument shall be built for Ophelia that will last forever , I promise . We 'll have the quiet we need soon . In the meantime , let 's proceed patiently .
I know . So please put a nice big glass of white wine on the wrong box . I know he 'll get tempted and choose that one . I 'll do anything rather than marry a drunk , Nerissa .
And I for no woman .
No , I mean , the fashion of a man 's clothing tells us nothing about the man .
Is his ship sturdy ?
Yes . Is there a scale here to weigh the flesh ?
I 'll go back to the duke of Gloucester and tell him so .
than its lifeboat , and its lifeboat looks as small as a tiny buoy . Up here you ca n't even hear the waves crashing against the rocks . I have to stop looking , or my head will start spinning and I 'll fall .
You were born from a woman . Swords do n't frighten me . I laugh at any weapon used by a man who was born from a woman .
" Horatio , When you 've read this letter , find a way to let these guys see the king . They have letters for him . Before we were at sea for even two days , a pirate ship equipped for battle pursued us . We were too slow to escape , so we were forced to stand and fight . In the battle that followed I ended up on the pirate ship . Just then they left our ship behind , so I became the only prisoner on board . They 've treated me quite mercifully for thieves , but they knew what they were doing . They want me to do a favor for them .
Go ahead and write it down . Make your handwriting look like a soldier 's . Be pointed and brief . It does n't need to be witty as long as it 's eloquent and imaginative . Taunt him as much as you want , since you 're only doing it in writing . It 's fine if you refer to him as " thou " instead of " you . " Write down as many lies as you can fit on a sheet of paper . Go ahead , get on with it . You may be using an ordinary pen , but you can fill it with poison ink . Now get busy .
I 'm your evil spirit , Brutus .
If that 's the case , then you 're the man to help us , me along with the rest . And if you carry it off and break the ice -- win the older and make the younger accessible to us -- whoever winds up with her will not be such a boor as to be ungrateful , I 'm sure .
and lawful . And I will work as hard as I can to defend this crown against any man .
Oh , heat , dry up my brains ! Salty tears , burn my eyes ! By heaven , I 'll get revenge for your madness ! Oh , you springtime rose , dear maiden , kind sister , sweet Ophelia ! Is it possible that a young woman 's mind could fade away as easily as an old man 's life ? Human nature is refined and thoughtful -- person graciously gives a valuable part of herself away to her beloved , as Ophelia has sent off her sanity to her dead father .
Good Mr. Mustardseed , I know you very well . Those cowardly , gigantic sides of beef have been responsible for many of your family members getting eaten as a condiment on beef . I swear to you , many members of your mustard family have made my eyes water before . I look forward to getting to know you better , Mr. Mustardseed .
Oh , he 's really gone .
Caesar and he are better friends than ever .
And I would n't stay there . I do n't want to upset my father by being in his house . Dear Duke , please listen to what I have to say .
I did n't expect any better from him once he got involved with Mistress Shore . But we had decided that he should n't die until you were able to come witness his execution . . If you could have heard the traitor speak for himself and confess the exact way he planned to murder us , you could have told the citizens what terrible intentions he had , though now they 're likely to misconstrue what we did and wail over his death .
Oh , my dear father , please get better . May my kiss heal the wounds inflicted on you by my sisters -- who should have respected and cherished you .
Yes , please do , so we can have a good laugh about it . But do n't fall in love for real , and do n't take the game too far . You want to get out of it easily , and with your honor intact .
My lord , you brought me up and loved me , and I 'm giving back just as I should : I obey you , love you , and
Sir , he 's with Caesar .
Do you honestly think , in your soul , that Claudio has wrongly accused Hero ?
And will the bride and bridegroom be here soon ?
No , you horrible rogue ! I wish to God I were dead , so I could have you hanged . You dislocated my shoulder !
She ca n't deny it .
I 'll pay you . Take me to the man my husband is in debt to . Once I find out what the debt is for , I 'll pay it . Doctor Pinch , please have him brought to my house . What a horrible day !
But why are n't you in your shop today ? Why are you leading these men through the streets ?
Sir !
Yes . I could even supply the dialogue between you and your lover if you did your little puppet show of love for me .
I 'm better off because of my enemies , and worse off because of my friends .
I tell you what , Captain Gower ; I perceive that he is not the man that he would have the world think he is . If I find an opportunity , I will give him a piece of my mind .
What do we have here , a man or a fish ? Whew , he stinks like a fish -- an old salted fish , not a fresh-caught one . A strange fish . If I were in England now , like I was once , and I had even a painted picture of this fish , every fool there would give me a piece of silver to look at it . In England this strange monster would be just like a man . Any strange beast there can be considered a man . The men there wo n't give a penny to a lame beggar , but they 'll pay ten cents to look at a freak show exhibit . This guy has legs like a man but fins for arms ! And he 's still warm , by God . I guess this is not a fish , but a native who got struck by lightning just now .
My God , that 's my handkerchief !
What do you have to say for yourself ?
It 's because of the full moon . It comes too close to the earth and drives men crazy .
My words are dull . Enliven them with yours !
Your sister 's sister .
I 'll fight at sea .
What clown did they hire as the new doorkeeper ? My master is standing out in the street !
Please walk softly , so not even a mole hears us approach . We 're near his room now .
But they ca n't live forever .
Did you go to bed so late , my friend , that you 're having a hard time getting up now ?
And I had to be away ! My wife was killed too ?
Right this instant , I 'm going to Caesar 's funeral .
Where 's Peaseblossom ?
From Silvius , sir .
All right , I will . But you do n't look as if you bring good news . If Antony is free and healthy , you should n't wear such a sour face while bringing such good news . If he 's not well , you should arrive like a Fury with snakes for hair , not in the shape of a normal man .
Yes .
Your mother was extremely virtuous , and she said you were my daughter . And your father was Duke of Milan , and you were his heir , a princess .
No , you wo n't get a word out of me . All I 'll tell you is that the duke has had dinner already . Now it 's time to get your costumes together . Find some good strings for tying on your false beards , and grab new ribbons to decorate your shoes . Meet me at the palace as soon as possible . Look over your lines again . Our play 's going to be performed for the duke ! So make sure Thisbe 's wearing clean underwear , and make sure whoever 's playing the lion does n't cut his nails , because he needs them long to look like lion 's claws . And no one eat any onions or garlic . If we have sweet-smelling breath , I 'm sure they 'll say " it 's a sweet play . " Now no more talking . Get busy , go !
Goodbye , then . I 'll take a look at your letter .
Yes , I was , but I do n't want an answer from you . Let me finish my curse .
Is this action just and honorable ?
Give me your first , Mr. Mustardseed . Please , stop bowing , good sir .
Yes , and a brave one , who dares to look at something that would frighten the devil .
That 's just how I want him to behave toward the drunkard , speaking in a low , soft voice and in humble , courteous tones and saying fancy stuff like , " What does your Honor wish to command your lady , your humble wife , to do to show her devotion and demonstrate her love ? " Tell him to give the drunkard fond embraces and alluring kisses , and lay his head on the other man 's breast , weeping like a woman overjoyed to see a husband restored to health who for the last seven years has imagined he was no better than a poor , pathetic beggar . The boy may lack a woman 's gift for weeping at will , so it might be good to have an onion handy , hidden in a handkerchief . That 'll make his eyes stream . Get this done as quickly as you can . I 'll give you more instructions later .
Beautifully , sir , beautifully ! It could n't go any other way .
What , are you sleepy ? Poor boy , I do n't blame you ; you 've stayed awake too long . Call Claudio and some of my other men . I 'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent .
On the twelfth day of December --
And , good Master Corporal Captain , for my old lady 's sake , be my friend . She has nobody here to help her do anything once I 'm gone . She 's old and ca n't do much by herself . I 'll give you forty shillings , sir .
It 's the devil speaking through him .
Let it be forty . Even with both my father and Glendower absent , our armies may still be enough to win . Come on , let 's gather our troops right now . It 's almost doomsday ; if we die , we die cheerfully .
Yes , she saw me quite clearly .
Amen . You know , some men , who have fear in their hearts , might falter at this point . After all , these woods are n't a proper church , and there 's no congregation here but horned animals . But who cares ? I 'll be brave . Horns may be hateful , but they 're also necessary . They say , " Many a man does n't know the full extent of what he owns . " Exactly : many a man will see no end to the horns his wife furnishes him with .
Sir Toby , I 've got to be frank with you . My lady told me to tell you that while she lets you stay at her house because you 're a relative , she does n't approve of your behavior . If you can shape up , you 're welcome to stay in the house . If you ca n't , and would prefer to leave , she 's very willing to say goodbye to you .
Sir , I would n't say I was your friend , but I 've praised you when you deserved ten times more praise than I gave .
But when push comes to shove , they droop like those horses that are all show and slow to a crawl . Is his army approaching ?
Then I 'll pay you for doing what you like .
A great spirit has gone from the world ! This is what I wanted . Once it 's gone , the very thing we reject becomes what we desire . What 's enjoyable one day becomes the opposite as time rolls around . Now that she 's gone , I want her . Now I would call her back , though I pushed her away . I have to break from this beguiling Queen . The time I 've wasted here has caused ten thousand more problems than the ones I know about . Are you there , Enobarbus ?
I 'll join you , sir . We did a lot of drinking in Egypt .
Oh Fate , do n't spare Hero from being punished ! Death is the best way to cover over her shame .
Go , Lord Hastings , and have them march past before they 're dismissed .
You lying slut , everything you say is false . You 're scheming with some damned gang , trying to make a fool of me . With my own bare hands , I 'll scratch out your eyes , which want to see me humiliated .
We 'll give you an answer tomorrow .
Good Master Corporate Bardolph , be my friend . Here are some French crowns for you , worth four Corporate . I 'm telling you , sir , I 'd just as soon be hanged as go fight . It 's not that I care about my well - being . It 's just that I 'm not willing to go , and furthermore , I 'd like to stay here with my friends . But really , I do n't care about myself .
Your brother Don John the Bastard has run away from Messina . The three of you have killed a sweet , innocent woman . Lord Babyface over there will meet me in a duel , and good luck to him then .
Take off that gown , Trinculo . I swear that gown 's for me .
You 're going to pay for this , Roderigo . I know who you are .
I 've got my eye on you . If you care about me , you 'll be honest with me .
You were never with me for anything if you were n't there for the goose .
Yes , every inch a king . My subjects tremble when I look at them . I pardon that man . What are you accused of ? Adultery ? I 'll commute your death sentence . To die for adultery ? No. Little birds do it , and dragonflies copulate right in front of me . Let 's have more sex in the world , since Gloucester 's bastard son was kinder to him than my daughters , conceived in lawful wedlock , have been to me . Get to it , be lustful , sleep around --I need soldiers for my army . Look at that simpering lady over there . From looking at her face , I 'd say she 's
I do n't even have one to throw at a dog .
Richard so long in those unlucky Irish wars , people thought he was dead . You seized the opportunity , and used the general feeling to your advantage . You forgot the oath you swore to us at Doncaster . We nourished you , but you used us , like the cuckoo bird uses the sparrow : you settled in our nest , ate our food , and as you grew , you crowded us out . We loved you , but we could n't even come near you , for fear that you 'd swallow us up . For our own safety , we were forced to run away and secretly raise this army . And now we stand with it , armed with powers that you yourself have caused to stand against you . You treated us poorly , you looked at us with anger , and you broke the faith and trust you swore to us when you were younger .
Making fun of you ? No , I swear ! I wish you could face your bad news like a man !
Ah , all you up in heaven ! And earth ! What else ? Shall I include hell as well ? Damn it ! Keep beating , my heart , and muscles , do n't grow old yet -- keep me standing . Remember you ! Yes , you poor ghost , as long as I have any power of memory in this distracted head . Remember you ! Yes , I 'll wipe my mind clean of all trivial facts and memories and preserve only your commandment there . Yes , by God ! Oh , you evil woman ! Oh , you villain , villain , you damned , smiling villain ! Where 's my notebook?- -It 's a good idea for me to write down that one can smile and smile , and be a villain . At least it 's possible in Denmark . So , uncle , there you are . Now it 's time to deal with the vow I made to my father .
Cough them up .
He said that you have to give him a better guarantee of payment than just saying Bardolph was good for it . He would n't accept Bardolph 's promise or yours ; he felt that neither should be trusted .
Here 's my hand . Let it feel your ear .
She 's talking to me . She 's talking about me . What , was I married to her in a dream ? Or am I asleep now and imagining all this ? What is making our eyes and ears act so strangely ? Until I know for sure , I 'll humor her .
Grumio , either leave or shut up . I 'm warning you .
I 'm just saying that if you 're good and beautiful , your goodness should have nothing to do with your beauty .
Given the circumstances , my lord , whatever Harry Percy may have said to a man like that , in a place and time like that , should be allowed to die and never be spoken of again . It should never be used against Harry in any way , since he has taken it all back now .
How did you lose your breath ?
Sir , here 's the Queen .
Charge me ? Get lost , you sick jerk . What ? You broke , rude , scheming , cheating , shirtless fool ! Get away from me , you moldy bastard , away ! I 'm meant for your betters .
It 's just and reasonable that I want to take revenge on the person who killed my husband .
Then Dobbin 's tail must be growing backward . I 'm sure he had more hair on his tail than I have on my face when I last saw him .
Oh , my lord , my lord , forgive my panic ! I did n't think you would follow me .
I do n't think he 'd have any choice , my lord .
As most unbelievable things are .
Are you there ?
Live , Brutus ! Live , live !
No , my good lord , my friends are in the north .
For the love of God , call a doctor ! Sir Toby needs help right away .
No , listen to me , Francis . The sugar you gave me was worth about a penny , right ?
Shall I be your slave ?
Tell us , Othello .
I 've killed many men in battle , but I still believe it 's deeply wrong to murder someone . Sometimes I worry I 'm not cruel enough for this job . Nine or ten times I wanted to stab him under the ribs .
Calphurnia !
But a dream itself is just a shadow .
What ? Poor ? Look at his face . What do you call rich ? They could make coins from his nose , mint his cheeks . I wo n't pay a denier . You think I 'm a rube ? What , I ca n't relax at a tavern without getting my pocket picked ? I lost my grandfather 's sealing ring , worth forty marks .
Am I in France ?
The smallest service is repaid with thanks . Mine will be , too , before you touch the food .
You 're like one of those guys who walks into a bar , slams his sword on the table , and then says , " I pray I never have to use you . " By the time he orders his second drink , he pulls his sword on the bartender for no reason at all .
Let me shake your hand .
My integrity and I begin to contradict each other . Being loyal to a fool makes loyalty foolish . But a person who can bear to keep his allegiance to a defeated lord defeats his lord 's conqueror and earns a place in history .
You 're a lover . Take Cupid 's wings and fly higher than the average man .
You gentle Romans --
Well , then , there !
Oh , yes you did --I lost time listening to your foolish song . God be with you , and I hope He fixes your voices ! Come on , Audrey .
And leave us , Publius , in case the people storming us should harm you .
What were the primary evils he claimed women were guilty of ?
What a righteous judge !
Mantua .
What ? Just now ?
Sir , I 'll tell her that you protest to her , which I think is the gentlemanly thing to do ..
His speech is stored in my heart .
Let 's not break the law by starting a fight . Let them start something .
You have n't seen him since ? Sir , sir , that ca n't be true . If I were n't a merciful man , I 'd forget about your missing brother and punish you in his place . But do this : find your brother , wherever he is . Bring him here dead or alive within the next year , or get out off my land . I 'm seizing your lands and all that you possess until your brother gives testimony that absolves you of any guilt .
Master Antipholus --
Come on , please sing . If you 'd like to continue this discussion , at least do so with music .
She 's full of good advice .
Amen to that , from the bottom of my heart .
Farewell , farewell .
Now , my dearest Queen --
Excuse me , sir , do you know anything about this ?
You keep cramming words into my ears that I do n't want to hear . I wish that wedding had never happened , since I lost my son because of it , and I lost my daughter too in a way , since she 's moved so far from Milan that I 'll never see her again . --Oh , dear son of mine and heir of Naples and Milan , what strange fish has made a meal of you ?
Hold on , then . Go home , be cheerful , and tell them you agree to marry Paris . Tomorrow is Wednesday . Tomorrow night make sure that you are alone . Do n't let the Nurse stay with you in your bedroom . When you 're in bed , take this vial , mix its contents with liquor , and drink . Then a cold , sleep-inducing drug will run through your veins , and your pulse will stop . Your flesh will be cold , and you 'll stop breathing . The red in your lips and your cheeks will turn pale , and your eyes will shut . It will seem like you 're dead . You wo n't be able to move , and your body will be stiff like a corpse . You 'll remain in this deathlike state for forty-two hours , and then you 'll wake up as if from a pleasant sleep . Now , when the bridegroom comes to get you out of bed on Thursday morning , you 'll seem dead . Then , as tradition demands , you 'll be dressed up in your best clothes , put in an open coffin , and carried to the Capulet family tomb . Meanwhile , I 'll send Romeo word of our plan . He 'll come here , and we 'll keep a watch for when you wake up . That night , Romeo will take you away to Mantua . This plan will free you from the shameful situation that troubles you now as long as you do n't change your mind , or become scared like a silly woman and ruin your brave effort .
Go inside yourself . Make yourself comfortable . This storm protects me from thoughts that would hurt me more . But I 'll go in . You go in first , boy . Oh , you suffering homeless people --No , you go in . I 'll pray first , then I 'll sleep .
Rub his temples .
That 's true . I even knew the tailor who made the disguise she wore when she ran off .
Poins ! Now we 'll find out whether Mr. Gadshill has planned a robbery . If good deeds bring a man to heaven , there 's no hell hot enough for Poins . This is the most incredible villain , whoever said " Stick ' em up ! " to an honest man .
Oh , no , my dream went on even after I died . In fact , the real nightmare had only just begun . With the help of the grim ferryman that poets like to write about , my soul crossed the river into the kingdom of endless night . The first to greet me there was my great father - in - law , the famous earl of Warwick . He cried aloud , " What terrible punishment can this dark realm devise for the oath - breaker Clarence ? " And he vanished . Then a ghost like an angel with its hair spattered in blood wandered by , and shieked ,
So , are the horses ready ?
Will you abandon such gentle lambs , God , and throw them to the wolves ? Have you ever slept before while such a terrible deed was done ?
What did Popillius Lena say ?
Damn that crazy madman ! He poured a pitcher of white wine on my head once . This is the skull of Yorick , the king 's jester .
Why are you curious , Iago ?
You lie , you nasty , ungrateful thing ! Have you forgotten the horrid witch Sycorax , stooped over with old age and ill will ? Have you forgotten her ?
I never considered my life as anything more than a chess pawn for you to play off against your enemies . I 'm not afraid to lose it if it helps protect you .
Yes , if I 'm still alive , and you 're still sane , and your dinner is worth eating .
But I will never die .
Here comes Kent .
What should we do ?
Now , now ! What 's all this ? What 's going on ?
How can you square things with me ?
Master , this is no moment to lecture you . The heart wo n't be reasoned with . If love has touched you , love has touched you -- end of story . But , as the Roman Terence advises , now that you 're a captive , it 's time to buy back your freedom at the lowest possible cost .
I am an ass , indeed : you can tell by my long ears . I 've served this man from the moment I was born until this very instant , and all I 've ever gotten from him are bruises . When I 'm cold , his beatings keep me warm . When I 'm hot , they keep me cool . He wakes me up by beating me , makes me stand by beating me , sends me out of the house and welcomes me back by beating me . Seriously , I carry beatings around with me like a beggar woman carries her baby . I figure that once he 's crippled me , I 'll beg by showing off my beatings .
you will comprehend any vagrant men you see . You are to order all men to stop , in the Prince 's name .
Then see the evidence of their evil with your own eyes . Look how I 've been bewitched ! See how my arm has become like a withered tree - branch ? This is the work of Edward 's wife , that monstrous witch , who is in league with that tramp Shore . They have used witchcraft to harm me .
Put away your swords . They 'll get rusty in the dew . Sir , your age and status inspire more respect than your weapons do .
Where is the beautiful queen of Denmark ?
They tell me you 've done everything you can to talk him out of what he 's doing . But since he remains stubborn , and there 's no legal way to protect me from his malice , I 'll just have to take what he 'll give me . I 'm ready to suffer peacefully whatever he does to me in his cruelty and anger .
How ? With my eye sockets ?
Nurse ! Wife ! What ? Hey , Nurse !
I bet it 's a love letter !
No , I swear . Not even enough to say grace before a snack .
No , in its tongue .
Wretched boy , you hung out with him here , and you 're going to go to heaven with him .
And in public too .
No , because then we 'd be garbagemen .
" An honor ? " If I were n't your only nurse , I 'd say you had sucked wisdom from the breast that fed you .
That 's an old proverb , Beatrice , from the time when neighbors praised each other . In this day and age , if a man does n't erect his own monument before he dies , he wo n't be remembered past the funeral bell' s ringing and his widow 's crying .
And windowsills , anything .
If you can stoop to speak to a man as poor as I am , then listen to me , please .
Give me my money and let me go .
Hmm , he was from Normandy , you say ?
Dear God , please make him normal again !
Good Metellus , go to him now . He likes me , and I 've given him good reason to . Just send him here , and I 'll persuade him .
Why ,
Taste my legs ? My legs stand under me , but I do n't understand what " taste your legs " means .
You should be ashamed of yourself , Satan , you liar ! I 'm being gentle with you , because I 'm one of those good-hearted people who are polite to the devil himself . You call this house dark ?
Please , what 's the hour ?
And you 've done well on land .
I say you 're not .
Well then , God forgive me !
When that brave Scotsman , Lord Douglas , saw that things were turning against him , that Percy had been killed , and that his men were fleeing in terror , he ran away too . He fell down a hill and was so badly injured that our men were able to capture him . He 's being held prisoner at my tent . I ask your highness to let me decide what to do with him .
No , Hal , I swear to God ! If Percy 's alive , you 're not taking my sword . But you can have my gun , if you want .
I ca n't have dinner with him . Please tell him I accept his ring with thanks . And could you please take my servant to old Shylock 's house ?
" You 'll be killing me like a common criminal , a mugger . "
That 's what makes it " sensitive " news . I was just knocking to see if anyone was home . Now , I 'll begin : first , we came down a steep hill , my master riding behind my mistress --
Absolutely , people should be what they appear to be .
Next thing you know , he 'll be saying " widower Aeneas . "
No , stop . You should always be honest .
I 'm worried we 'll get there too early . I have a feeling this party tonight will be the start of something bad , something that will end with my own death . But whoever 's in charge of where my life 's going can steer me wherever they want . Onward , lover boys !
How are you , your highness ?
No. I wish I could be a complete joker -- but so many lords and important men are also playing fools that I ca n't have a monopoly on it . Ladies too -- they 're always snatching away my role as the biggest fool . --Uncle , give me an egg , and I 'll give you two crowns .
What 's that noise ? Who 's calling for Hamlet ? Oh , here they come .
Get out of here , you measly , lying wretch . You feed me with only the names of foods . To hell with you and the whole pack of you who triumph at my misery . Go on , I said get out of here .
Good afternoon , brother . Why are you surrounded by these armed guards ?
Oh , never has a queen been so betrayed as I have been . I knew from the first it would be this way .
Sir , enter the castle .
Tybalt was my nephew ! He was my brother 's son ! Oh Prince , oh nephew , oh husband ! Oh , my nephew is dead ! Oh Prince , as you are a man of honor , take revenge for this murder by killing someone from the Montague family . Oh cousin , cousin !
Good morning to you , friend . Do you work in this house ?
I know your lady Goneril does n't love her husband . I 'm sure of that . And when she was here recently she flirted with Edmund and gave him significant glances . I know she trusts you and tells you everything .
Look ! He 's arrived . March to meet him at a dignified pace .
Come here , man .
True , if a fool such as yourself could find it .
Tell me that you 'll accept my love .
That 's as good as proof that the sweet young man 's in love .
Sir , I know you , and I trust you enough to share something very important with you . There 's a feud between Albany and Cornwall , although they 've been clever enough to hide it thus far . Like other powerful rulers , they have servants who are actually French spies in disguise . These spies have noticed something , perhaps in the squabbles between Albany and Cornwall , or in the tough line both of them have taken against the good old king , or perhaps in some deeper matter at the root of both of these problems --The point is that the King of France has sent troops into our divided kingdom . Some French agents are already at work in our main ports and are on the verge of declaring open war . Now this is where you come in . If you trust me enough to hurry to Dover , you 'll earn the gratitude of many people when you fairly report the monstrous and maddening extent of the king 's suffering . I 'm a nobleman , and I know what I 'm doing in assigning this job to you .
I did what I had to do for the sake of my own well - being . I accept my fate patiently , since there 's no way I can avoid it .
Okay . But you promise you can keep a secret ?
How 's your master Falstaff doing , Bardolph ?
Nothing . Tell me , why did the king arrive with such a small entourage ?
Does n't anyone else want to see this , and hear breath wheezing out from broken ribs ? Does anyone else love rib breaking ? Shall we go watch this wrestling , cousin ?
Go , Nurse , go with her . We 'll have the wedding at the church tomorrow .
Otherwise your tale would have gotten too long .
Why do you pity him ? He does n't deserve any pity . Why would you love such a woman ? So she can turn you into an instrument and play lousy tunes on you ? It 's unbearable . Well , go back to her --I can tell she 's turned you into a perfectly tame snake -- and tell her this : if she loves me , I command her to love you . And if she wo n't love you , tell her I 'll never take her unless you beg me to . If you 're a true lover , get out of here . No , do n't say another word , because here comes more company .
My lord , do n't try to persuade him to stay .
I 'll send her out to you now . I 'll think of a plan to get the Moor out of the way , so you can speak more openly .
Here he comes . No drugs or sleeping pills will ever give you the restful sleep that you had last night .
Scorn and defiance , indifference , contempt , and any insult that would n't disgrace the mighty sender -- that 's the value he puts on you . And my king goes on : if your royal father does not sweeten the bitter insult you sent my king and grant all our demands , Henry 's artillery will give you so resounding an answer that the very caves and vaulted cathedrals of France shall echo your mocking of him back in your face .
What have you found out ?
I 'm damned for not having been at court ? Explain .
I 've had enough of this " off with you ! " Come on , let me in !
I have no doubt that my noble master will prove himself to be what he is : honorable and noble .
Actually , I 'd like a few pounds of grass . I 'd like to munch on some good dry oats . Or maybe I 've got a hankering for a bundle of hay . There 's nothing like good hay , really sweet hay .
Well , this is the Forest of Arden .
Good to see you , Corporal Nym .
And I 'm sure he is n't .
I do n't like the way he 's acting , and it 's not safe for me to let his insanity get out of control . So get prepared . I 'm sending you to England on diplomatic business , and Hamlet will go with you . As king , I cannot risk the danger he represents as he grows crazier by the hour .
I 'd rather have this guy marry us , because he is not likely to marry us well , and if we 're not married properly , I 'll have a better excuse later to leave my wife .
I just want everything to be all right between you .
Then by all means never let her walk in public . Procreation is a good thing , but if your daughter gets pregnant ... look out , friend .
Let him ask what he wants to ask .
No , my lord .
almost read people 's thoughts . She told my mother that as long as she kept it with her , my father would love and desire her . But if she lost it or gave it away , my father would start hating her and looking at other women . When she was dying she gave it to me and told me to give it to my wife when I got married . I did . So pay attention . Treat it as something precious . Losing it or giving it away would be an unspeakable loss , a loss like none other .
Wow , we 're really going to drive him crazy .
You 're both those people -- responsible for both cause and effect .
He 's not here .
Sir , do n't even try to beat me in a battle of wits . I 'll meet all your attacks , even if you come charging at me with a lance at full gallop . Choose another tack .
If you leave like this , my dear , I wo n't ever use my sword again . I 'm not just talking nonsense to you , I mean everything I say . Do you think you 've got a couple of fools on your hands here ?
I do n't feel well .
May God forgive you if you 've sinned ! --Were you with Rosaline ?
Well , Oswald ? Have you written that letter to my sister yet ?
Yes , let her die and rot and go to hell tonight . She wo n't stay alive for long . No , my heart 's turned to stone -- when I hit it , it hurts my hand . Oh , the world never saw a sweeter creature . She could be married to an emperor , and he 'd be like her slave !
Actually , I 'm still feeling some pangs of conscience .
Then , when we were dividing the money , about six or seven other men jumped us --
He would n't get drunk much , since there 's no wine here .
Well , Shylock ? Are you going to loan us the money ?
No , it was a little one , not more than a pint .
Where is it ? It was stolen from us . A hundred men against only four of us .
No , really , it 's not , Kate . But your speaking my language , and I yours truly - falsely comes to pretty much the same thing . Can you understand this much English though , Kate ? Could you love me ?
Did n't this frighten our captains , Macbeth and Banquo ?
In Algiers , sir .
Asses are made for bearing , and so are you .
Then I 'll tell you . Believe that you are a foolish little baby for believing these " offers " are something real . Offer yourself more respect , or -- not to beat this word to death -- you 'll offer me the chance to be a laughing - stock .
Been around royalty ! Isis forbid it were otherwise , since he 's been in your service so long .
Thank you .
Do n't worry , that goes without saying .
You have , my lord . I hope you 'll make up for it !
You had rotten food , and he helped you eat it . He 's a very brave eater -- he has a strong stomach .
way that you judge advantageous to my rule , and I 'll undertake to agree to it . Fair sister , will you go with the princes or stay here with me ?
It could only have been caused by some humor or worm .
You may hear about it soon . Goodbye , sir .
Will you come with me ?
Go , daughter . I cannot blame you now for weeping . An insult like this would try the patience of a saint , let alone a hot-tempered shrew like you !
They 're waiting outside the palace gate , my lord .
What does a crocodile look like ?
Why , Caesar straddles the narrow world like a giant , and we petty men walk under his huge legs and look forward only to dying dishonorably , as slaves . Men can be masters of their fate . It is not destiny 's fault , but our own faults , that we 're slaves . " Brutus " and " Caesar . " What 's so special about " Caesar " ? Why should that name be proclaimed more than yours ? Write them together -- yours is just as good a name . Pronounce them -- it is just as nice to say . Weigh them -- it 's just as heavy .
Sir , it 's your brother-in-law Cassius at the door . He wants to see you .
Then you should offer the gods a sacrifice to show your thanks . When a man 's wife dies , he can be comforted by the knowledge that there are replacements to be found . If Fulvia were the last woman on earth , there would be a reason to grieve . But in this way , grief and comfort appear together . The only kind of tears you should shed in this case are the kind you might get from holding an onion to your nose .
Can your man keep a secret ? Have n't you ever heard the saying , " Two can conspire to put one away " ?
My goodness , this is my lady 's handwriting ! These are her C' s , her U 's and her T 's , and that 's how she makes her big P 's . It 's definitely her handwriting , no doubt about it .
What 's the matter ? What 's going on here , general ?
I meant to say the Lord Protector .
I 'd be very glad if you would .
Come on , Balthasar , let 's hear that song again .
Here comes Sir Toby , limping . He 'll tell you more of the story . If he had n't been drunk , he would 've really roughed you up .
No slander , Hal . On my honor , no slander .
No , I 've had my say . Here comes the Emperor .
Who in the crowd is calling me ? I hear a voice more piercing than the music of these trumpets calling " Caesar ! " Speak . Caesar is listening .
Me neither .
Yes Signior ?
For the love of God , be patient with him .
Ca n't I even say " thank you " ? I left my brain back on the wrestling field . What 's left of me is a dummy , just a lifeless block .
Your husband 's near . I hear his trumpet . We 're not tattle - tales , madam , do n't worry .
I thought you were resolved to do this .
On my honor . Come , let 's not talk about it anymore .
Let us know when you want to get together . We 're available .
He 's very bright . I 'll get him to come here , and you can ask him yourself .
Then hurry up and rush over to Friar Lawrence 's cell . There 's a husband there who 's waiting to make you his wife . Now I see the blood rushing to your cheeks . You blush bright red as soon as you hear any news . Go to the church . I must go by a different path to get a rope ladder . Your love will use it to climb up to your window while it 's dark . I do the drudge work for your pleasure . But soon you 'll be doing a wife 's work all night long . Go . I 'll go to lunch . You go to Friar Lawrence 's cell .
By the moon and stars ! Whip him ! If I saw twenty of the greatest powers that pay tribute to Caesar taking such liberties with her hand -- what 's her name now ? This woman who once was Cleopatra , but now has become something different ? Whip him , fellows , until he screws up his face like a baby and cries aloud for mercy ! Take him away .
Poor man ! Antony 's eyes are fiery red from crying .
Maybe , but if you killed yourself , it would also show that you felt some guilt for killing others .
All right , sir , I will . Do you have it with you ?
Amen to that .
I ca n't be as happy as they are at this moment , but nothing could make me any happier . Now it 's time to get back to my studying , since I have a lot of serious business to take care of before dinner .
How many years from now will this heroic scene be reenacted in countries that do n't even exist yet and in languages not yet known !
Good - bye , my lord .
No , do n't hit him , lieutenant ! Please , sir , restrain yourself .
