Truly , my lord , you are to blame in your stubbornness . Since you arrived , you have done enough to test his patience . You must learn , sir , to correct this fault . Sometimes it demonstrates greatness , courage , strength -- and that honors you . But often it reveals fury , bad manners , lack of self - control , pride , arrogance , conceitedness , and contempt . In a gentlemen , the least of these qualities will make you lose people 's affections . It stains your beautiful qualities , making it impossible for them to be noticed .
I could do without another toast . It 's unnatural . I keep washing my brain with alcohol , and it keeps getting fouler and more muddled .
From now on , you are banished from Verona . You should be able to endure this because the world is broad and wide .
Really ?
Damn her , the wicked whore ! Oh , damn her , damn her ! Come away with me . I 'm going inside to think up some way to kill that beautiful devil . You 're my lieutenant now .
When he opens his wallet to give us our pay , your conscience will fly out ?
I am one , my lord . Your Highness told me to ask for my commission today .
The other night I fell asleep here behind the arras and I had my pocket picked . This bar 's like a whorehouse : they pick your pockets .
It 's working ! Come on . You 've done well , Ariel . Follow me . Listen to what you 'll do for me next .
that harms you , and not the King himself . But as for you in particular , it seems to me that you have no foundation on which to build a quarrel with either the King or your current situation . Was n't the entire estate of the Duke of Norfolk , your father , just given back to you ?
Good , I 'm satisfied . Give me some wine --I do n't feel as energetic as I used to . Set it down . Is my ink and paper ready ?
I 'm sorry to hear you say that : I never realized that brave behavior should be rewarded with scolding and admonishing . Do you think I 'm a bird , or an arrow , or a bullet ? With this old , broken-down body , do you think I can move as fast as thought ? I 've gotten here as fast as humanly possible . I 've burned out more than 180 horses , and -- even though I 'm spent from all that travel --I 've managed , with my extraordinary bravery , to capture Sir John Coleville of the Valley , a brave knight and terrible enemy . But so what ? He simply saw me and surrendered . So I can say , just like Julius Caesar , that " I came , I saw , I conquered . "
Hear me , you wrangling pirates . You 're quarreling over what does n't even belong to you -- you stole it from me ! Which of you does not tremble when you see me ? If you are n't trembling because you know I am queen and you are my subjects , then you 're shaking because you threw me from the throne ! Oh highborn villain , do not turn away !
Go , Captain , and give the Danish king my greetings . Tell him that Fortinbras asks permission to move his troops across Denmark . You know the meeting place we 've arranged . If His Majesty wants us to do any favor for him , tell him his wish is my command .
Oh , musicians , because my heart is singing " My Heart is Full of Woe . " Oh , play me some happy sad song to comfort me .
Most sweet lady --
What does she want ?
I will not depart and leave my husband here . It does n't suit your holiness to separate a husband and his wife .
Come on , you bastard , come on . Bring me to a judge .
I 'm not as happy as I seem . I 'm just trying not to show how worried I am about Othello 's safety . Come on , what would you say about me ?
Now make your choice .
Well , give them their assignment , Sir Dogberry .
That 's right , it 's just his immortal soul that needs a doctor . But he does n't care . His soul may be sick , but it wo n't die .
Go tell the king I want to talk to him for a few minutes .
If that 's true , I think the same thing about you .
Master Gower , if my manners are inappropriate , I must have indeed been taught by a fool . That 's how the game is played -- tit for tat , and game over .
Lucius , bring a bowl of wine .
You useless fool !
It 's nice to see children playing well together .
He wo n't fight with me , Domitius ?
What 's that , you runt ? Young son of a traitor !
Oh heavens , Kate , I would n't think of burdening you . I know how light and carefree you are .
Where 's he ?
What is a traitor ?
Oh , what an obstacle that would be ! Imagine being too high on the social ladder , and falling in love with someone beneath you .
Please .
He 's taking the bait .
Great God of heaven , say amen to all this ! But , tell me , is young George Stanley alive ?
My lord , the enemy has already passed the marsh . Let George Stanley die after the battle .
No , no . Bottom , you 're Pyramus . --And Flute , you 're Thisbe .
No , nothing but us talking .
It is . All we have to do is name the day .
Get a urine sample and take it to a witch doctor to find out .
Hello , my friends ! What a pretty picture , three fools all together .
I do n't wish you any harm .
He 's the color of nutmeg .
Come on . You know you 'll never find a more capable man .
It 's moist because it 's still young and inexperienced .
Not so loud , sirs . Prince , speak more quietly . Your father the King is trying to sleep .
Yes , my lord .
Let 's have a seat and some wine . A toast to Lepidus !
Do you see this , Kent ?
What do you know ?
Then follow me and listen to my speech , friends . Cassius , go to the next street and divide the crowd . Let those who will hear me speak stay . Lead those away who will follow you , and we 'll explain publicly the reasons for Caesar 's death .
The father of the lady of the house , sir .
My dear Regan , your sister 's not worth anything . Oh , Regan , she 's torn me apart with unkindness , like a vulture , right here . I can hardly speak . You 'll never believe how monstrously -- oh , Regan !
He 's an unremarkable man , fit only to be sent on errands . Does it really make sense , once we divide the world into three parts , that he should be one of the three rulers ?
Can things like this happen so suddenly without making us all astonished ? You make me feel like I do n't know myself , when I see you looking at these terrible things and keeping a straight face , while my face has gone white with fear .
And what of all this ?
I 've heard a lot more . I heard that Apollodorus carried --
Why are you telling me this ? Do you think I would live a life of jealousy , tormented by new suspicions every hour ? No. If there 's any doubt , there is no doubt . I might as well be a goat if I ever let myself become obsessed with the kind of suspicions you 're implying . If you say my wife is beautiful , eats well , loves good company , speaks freely , sings , plays music , and dances well , you 're not making me jealous . When a woman is virtuous , talents like these just make her better . And I 'm not going to start feeling inferior . She had her eyes wide open when she chose me . No , Iago , I 'll have to see some real evidence before I start suspecting her of anything bad , and when I suspect her , I 'll look for proof , and if there 's proof , that 's when I 'll let go of my love and my jealousy .
All right , now I 'm starting to lose my cool . By God , if you do n't tell me what happened you 'll all suffer . Tell me how this fight began , who started it . Whoever is guilty , even if he were my twin brother , I swear I 'm through with him . We 're in a town that 's just
But --
Your voice is loud and commanding , but you look like a working man .
You , sir , where 's my daughter ?
Oh , keeper , keeper , the bad things I 've done are finally taking their toll . I did them for Edward 's sake -- and look how he rewards me . --Oh God , if my prayers do n't satisfy you , and you have to avenge the wrongs I 've done , at least punish me alone ! Please spare my innocent wife and children ! --Kind warden , please stay with me for a while . I 'm feeling very low , and I need to sleep .
Let the envoy from Antony come in . Do you know him ?
Most noble man , will you die ? Do n't you care about me ? Shall I stay in this dreary world , which is no better than a pigsty without you ? Oh , look , ladies . The best of the world disappears . My lord !
Why , here is the order to prove it .
Could your lordship lend me a thousand pounds for some equipment I need ?
That 's a lie , you clown . It 's on its way to the king 's bank .
I 'm worried about the outcome of his speech . I do n't like this plan .
As old and white-haired as you are , and you 're such a traitor ?
The person who 's poor and contented is rich enough . But infinite riches are nothing to someone who 's always afraid he 'll be poor . God , help us not be jealous !
Is the throne empty ? Is the army without a leader ? Is the king dead , the empire dispossessed ? What heir of the York family is there alive other than myself ? And who is England 's king but an heir of the great York ? Therefore , tell me , what is he doing at sea ?
I 'll accompany you . I 'm also eager to hear it .
I 'm sorry , but I ca n't . You see , it 's dangerous for me to walk in these streets . Once in a battle at sea I did a lot of damage to Count Orsino 's warships . If they arrested me here , it 'd be the end of me .
Was n't that Cassio leaving my wife ?
No matter how ugly or stupid the woman is , she plays the same dirty tricks that the smart and pretty ones do .
Now 's the sweetest part of the night , and we have to leave without enjoying it .
Here , father , rest awhile in the shade of this tree . Say a little prayer for our side in battle . If I ever come back , I 'll bring you good news .
I was thinking about what an astrologer predicted the other day . He wrote about what these eclipses mean .
Alas , good Cassius , do n't think about him . If he loves Caesar , then he can only hurt himself -- by grieving and dying for Caesar . And I 'd be surprised if he even did that , for he prefers sports , fun , and friends .
If you 're a man , then let us see what you look like . If you 're a devil , then go to hell .
My enormous belly can speak in many languages , and each language proclaims my name and my name alone . If I had a moderately sized belly , all I 'd be is an anonymous but very successful soldier . But my belly , my belly , my belly blows my cover . Here comes the general .
But just be patient until we 've calmed the masses , who are beside themselves with fear . Then we 'll explain to you why I , who loved Caesar even while I stabbed him , have taken this course of action .
Call my brother . --Now I wish you 'd married her ! --Some of you go one way , some the other way . --Do you know where we can find her and the Moor ?
Welcome , dear nephew , king of all my thoughts . The tiring journey seems to have made you gloomy .
She may , Lord Rivers ? Everybody knows she may . She may do a lot more than that , sir . She may help you to get many nice promotions , and then deny she helped you , claiming you won them on your own merits . What ca n't she do ? She could even --
Why wo n't he ?
He is , my lord , and safe in Leicester , where , if you 'd like , we can retreat to .
Sir ?
My friends , go find others to help you . Hamlet in his madness has killed Polonius and dragged him out of his mother 's bedroom . Go find him and speak nicely to him , and bring the corpse into the chapel . Please hurry .
and affection , even if it 's just an act . If you want to find him , send the search party to the Sagittarius Inn . He and I will be there .
Poor dear , goodbye . I pity your situation .
He 's the only worthy man in Italy , aside from my dear Claudio .
For shame ! What kind of loyalty is this ?
Oh , dear !
How do you feel , Laertes ?
Oh , my brave Emperor , this is what I call a fight ! If we 'd fought like this before , we 'd have driven them home with bandaged heads .
Yes , husband . Can he deny it ?
Antipholus has gone insane , no question about it . If not , he 'd never behave like this . He has a ring of mine , worth forty ducats , and he promised to give me a necklace in exchange for it . Now he wo n't give me either . The reason I think he 's insane , besides the way he just acted , is that he told a senseless story over lunch about being locked out of his own house . His wife probably did it on purpose because she knows what kind of fits he 's having . I must go to his house and tell his wife that he came bursting into my place like a lunatic and stole my ring . It 's my best option : I ca n't afford to lose forty ducats .
I 'm well , and probably will be for a while , as I hear that four feasts are being prepared .
We have God and a good cause on our side . The prayers of saints and those that Richard wronged support us like high-walled fortresses . Other than Richard , even those whom we fight against would rather we won . Because who is this man they follow ? Truly , gentlemen , a violent tyrant and a murderer , who rose to his high position by shedding blood and kept the position the same way . He rose to the top by means of others and then slaughtered them . He 's like a worthless stone , who only seems like a valuable gem because he 's on the throne , where he does n't belong . He has always been God 's enemy . And when you fight God 's enemy , God will protect you . If you struggle to bring down a tyrant , you will sleep peacefully when the tyrant is killed . When you fight against your country 's enemies , you will be paid for your efforts with your country 's wealth . If you fight to protect your wives , your wives will welcome you home as conquerors . When you free your children from the sword , your grandchildren will repay you in your old age . So , in the name of God and all the good that will come of this battle , march with your flags high and draw your swords . As for me , if I fail , the only ransom I will offer the enemy is my corpse . But if I succeed , every one of you will share in the profit . Play boldly and cheerfully , drummers and trumpeters . Here 's to God and Saint George ! To Richmond and victory !
No , calm down . I 'm serving under him to take advantage of him . We ca n't all be masters , and not all masters should be followed . Look at all the devoted servants who work for their masters their whole lives for nothing but their food , and then when they get old they 're terminated . They ought to be whipped for being so stupid . But then there 's another kind of servant who looks dutiful and devoted , but who 's really looking out for himself . By pretending to serve their lords , these men get rich , and when they 've saved up enough they can be their own masters . Guys like that have soul , and that 's the kind of guy I am . Let me tell
But we still do n't know whether Caesar will go out in public today or not , because he 's become superstitious lately , a complete turnaround from when he used to have such a bad opinion of fortune - tellers , dream interpreters , and ritual mumbo-jumbo . It might happen that these strange signs , the unusual terror of this night , and the urgings of his fortune-tellers will keep him away from the Capitol today .
Oh , he 's been betrayed , and I 've been ruined .
Send Coleville and his confederates to York , to be put to death immediately . Blunt , lead him away , and guard him carefully .
Bring Desdemona here .
Look , and you 'll see .
Oh Buckingham , now I 'm going to test to see if you 're truly made of gold . Young Prince Edward is still alive -- what do you think I 'm going to say next ?
Nobody goes into my house !
Now , please , I beg you , do n't work so hard . I wish the lightning had burned up all those logs that you 've been ordered to stack ! Please put that log down and rest a while . When this wood burns , it 'll weep for making you tired . My father 's studying hard , so he wo n't see you . So please rest . We 're safe from my father for at least three hours .
Not the Adam from the garden of Eden , but the Adam from the jailhouse . The one that wears leather clothes . The one that grabbed you and arrested you .
Me too . And anything else that 's hard to believe , just ask me and I 'll swear it 's true . Travelers have never told lies , no matter what the fools at home accuse them of .
From the royal court ? Let him in .
Is this doomsday ? The end of the world ?
Sir , here comes the man who put the Prince in jail for hitting him during that argument about Bardolph .
Oh heavens , what does that song mean , my dear ?
Where are you going ?
Shut up already , you scoundrel ! Why are you trying to provoke me ?
I told him what I thought . I did n't tell him anything that did n't make sense or ring true to him .
Who 's that ?
Liar . In fact , you 're called Kate , plain Kate - -and pretty Kate , and sometimes Kate the shrew . But it 's definitely Kate - -the prettiest Kate in the world , Katie , Kitty , Kat - woman , the Kate - ster -- and so , Kate , here 's my pitch : that having heard your charming disposition praised -- not to mention your beauty and your virtues , though none of them as richly as you deserve --I find myself driven to propose . I want you for my wife .
Stephano ! If you 're Stephano , touch me and speak to me . I 'm Trinculo --do n't be scared -- your good friend Trinculo .
Then let 's meet with our senior command and discuss what to do next .
Here , madam .
Yes . What guilty conscience ? I do n't feel anything . If my feet were cold , I 'd put my slippers on , but I do n't feel any pangs of guilt . If there were twenty guilty consciences between me and the dukedom , they 'd melt away to nothing before they caused me any trouble . Here 's your brother sleeping , worth no more than the dirt he 's lying on . If he were as dead as he appears to be now -- and I could quickly make him dead with this sword of mine -- he would n't stand in our way . As
What treasure did he have , my lord ?
I acted with the authority of your father , whose power was vested in me . And when it came to the law -- which I was busy enforcing , for the good of the country -- you chose to ignore my rank , and the majesty and power of law and justice which I bore as a representative of the King . You struck me in the head , the very location of my judgment . With that action , you committed a crime against your father 's own laws . So I did what my power demanded , and imprisoned you . If that was wrong , then -- now that you wear the crown --I hope you 'll someday be satisfied with a son who mocks your laws , who scorns the judges who rule in your authority , who disrupts the course of law , and blunts the swords that guard your personal peace and safety . No , even worse than that : a son who disrespects your deputies , and the officers you appoint in your name . Question yourself , and imagine being in your father 's position . Be a father , and imagine a son . Listen to your own dignity being profaned . Watch as your most solemn laws are laughed at so lightly . Behold yourself being so disdained by a son . And then imagine that I take your side , and that in your name I gently silence your son . Soberly consider this , and then pronounce my sentence . As king , tell me
Good -- here 's the stretcher . Get somebody strong to carry him out of here . I 'll get the general 's surgeon . As for you , ma'am , do n't bother . The man lying here was my dear friend , Roderigo . --What was the problem between you ?
Ophelia , what 's the matter ?
Stand right in Antonius 's path when he runs the race . Antonius !
Yes , if Messala recommends me to you .
What are you saying , Cordelia ? Revise your statement , or you may damage your inheritance .
No , no , no , no , no .
You force me to read the will , then ? Then make a circle around Caesar 's corpse , and let me show you the man who made this will . Shall I come down ? Will you let me ?
I 'm afraid we 're intruding too boldly on your sleep time . Good morning , Brutus . Are we bothering you ?
Honestly , sir , we say that we are not criminals .
Do I , sir ? I assure your majesty I 'm only doing my duty both to my God and my good king .
She does n't see Hermia --Hermia , keep sleeping , and do n't come near me ever again ! Eating too many sweets makes people sick to their stomachs , and people always hate the mistakes they made in the past worse than anyone else hates those mistakes . Hermia , you 're the sweet I 've had too much of , and the mistake I used to make , so I hate you more than anyone else does . --I 'll use all my talents and efforts to serve Helen and bring her honor .
Where have I been ? Where am I ? Is it daytime ? I 've been tricked . I would die of pity to see someone else in my condition . I do n't know what to say . I ca n't even be sure these are my hands . Let 's see . I feel this pinprick . I wish I knew what is happening .
It 's true I 'm not married , Caesar . Let me hear what Agrippa has to say .
Explain , boy .
That 's what I thought too , sir .
I could take back my crown by force --What outrageous ingratitude !
Hello , you idiot . Sing us a song .
Have them come in .
I do n't know him .
A hangman 's rope free of charge . Nothing else , for God 's sake !
My lord , they 're waiting for you to give your daughter away to Claudio .
to death , I disguised myself as a madman beggar and became a creature despised even by dogs . --Oh , how sweet our lives must be if we prefer to die gradually by debasing ourselves rather than dying all at once ! --In that disguise I met up with my father with bloody sockets where his beautiful eyes used to be . I became his guide , I led him and begged for him , and kept him from suicide . I never -- oh , what a mistake ! -- revealed myself to him until half an hour ago , when I was in my armor . With hope in my heart I asked him for his blessing , not sure that he 'd give it to me . He did . I told him everything that had happened on my journey . But his frail heart , too weak to grapple with such a conflict between joy and sadness , gave out .
Ca n't he get it by fine and recovery ?
Oh , you 're going to hell , you disgusting dog . Killing you would be justice . You almost make me forget that I 'm a Christian . You make me want to agree with the philosopher Pythagoras that animal souls are reincarnated in human bodies . Your vicious dog soul used to belong to a wolf that was killed for slaughtering humans . When he died , his cruel soul passed out of his body and went into yours while you were lying in your unholy mother 's womb . That 's why your desires are wolfish , bloody , and ravenous .
Damn ! It 's hot out , gentlemen . Have you found half a dozen able-bodied men for me ?
He 's safe , Antony . I can assure you that no enemy will ever take the noble Brutus alive . The gods protect him from so great a shame ! When you do find him , alive or dead , he 'll be found on his own terms .
You wo n't , then ?
Well , look how you play me -- as if you knew exactly where to put your fingers , to blow the mystery out of me , playing all the octaves of my range -- and yet you ca n't even produce music from this little instrument ? My God , do you think I 'm easier to manipulate than a pipe ? You can push my buttons , but you ca n't play me for a fool .
Your mother is coming to your bedroom . Day has broken . Be careful . Watch out .
Ha , banishment ? Be merciful and say " death . " Exile is much worse than death . Do n't say " banishment . "
Oh my goodness ! Watch out for him : he stabbed me in my own house , and it was nasty . I swear , he does n't care what trouble he causes . Once he 's got his weapon out , he 'll thrust it like the devil . He wo n't spare man , woman , or child .
Well , her name 's a word , and if you fooled around with it you might make her into a whore . But , you know , words have been rascals ever since people started using written contracts rather than their word of honor .
Do you really think so ?
No , I have a commitment .
You .
It 's called the Jerusalem Room , your highness .
No ! Your flesh still rebels at your age ?
I did .
Now , sirrah , I hear you wish you were back in Egypt .
That 's good news , Lord Hastings . And hearing it , I now arrest you , traitor , for high treason . And you , Archbishop , and you , Lord Mowbray . I arrest you both for capital treason .
I 'm right here , my lord , at your service .
Amen !
Your wife would n't like it if she were here to hear you make that offer .
Or , even if the lovers are a good match , their love might be ruined by war , death , or sickness , so that the affair only lasts an instant . Their time together might be as fleeting as a shadow or as short as a dream , lasting only as long as it takes a lightning bolt to flash across the sky . Before you can say " look , " it 's gone . That 's how intense things like love are quickly destroyed .
But even so , we ca n't do without him . He builds our fires , gets our firewood , and does all kinds of useful things for us . --Hey! Caliban ! Pile of dirt ! Say something .
If we could listen to him with our noses , we would definitely say he stinks very sweetly . So what do you say , should we sing loud enough to shake the heavens ? Should we sing a round to wake up the night owl ? Should we do that ?
Bring in more wine ! And clink your glasses together , And clink your glasses together . A soldier 's a man , And a man 's life is short , So let the soldier drink . Have some more wine , boys !
Pardon me ?
Unless I 'm mistaken , you 're that mischievous and naughty spirit named Robin Goodfellow . Are n't you the one who goes around scaring the maidens in the village , stealing the cream from the top of the milk , screwing up the flour mills , and frustrating housewives by keeping their milk from turning into butter ? Are n't you the one who keeps beer from foaming up as it should , and causes people to get lost at night , while you laugh at them ? Some people call you " Hobgoblin " and " sweet Puck , " and you 're nice to them . You do their work for them and give them good luck . That 's you , right ?
Me too .
When I like the way you look , for God forbid your face be as ugly as your mask !
Do n't worry , I could n't care less . The only possible interest I could take in you would be to hit you on the head with a stool , paint your face with blood , and make a fool out of you .
I think you 're an ass .
Honestly , that 's what you said before .
But we 're all planning to leave together . How will you and I separate ourselves ?
I 'm sure the duke will never allow this contract to be enforced .
About as old as you are , my lord .
If they see you , they 'll murder you .
Me , marry her ? That whore ? Please give me a little credit ! I 'm not that stupid . Ha , ha , ha !
Wait , good Beatrice . I swear by this hand that I love you .
Huntsman , look after my hounds . Let Merriman catch his breath -- the poor dog 's foaming at the mouth . And tie up Clowder together with the long - mouthed bitch . Did you see , boy , how Silver picked up the scent at the hedge corner , where it was weakest ? I would n't part with that dog for twenty pounds .
Gonzalo is a miracle - worker . If he says Carthage was here , then Carthage must be here .
" High and Mighty one , You know I 've been set down naked , you might say , in your kingdom . Tomorrow I 'll beg permission to look into your kingly eyes , at which point I 'll tell you the story of how I came back to Denmark so strangely and suddenly . Hamlet "
Yes , here it is .
What would that be ?
Yes , my lord .
Well , let 's get out of here and tell Macbeth what we did accomplish .
By our beards , you are a knave .
They know your Grace has justification , as well as the money and military strength . And so you do . No king of England was ever backed by wealthier nobles or more loyal subjects . Their bodies may remain here in England , but their hearts are encamped on the fields of France already .
Come , is the bride ready to go to church ?
You did it perfectly , my little worker . You 'll get your freedom .
I 'll follow them and claim my reward . May God reward whoever rewards me . If I grow into a great man , I 'll grow thinner : I 'll go on a diet , quit drinking , and live properly , like a great man should .
Here , take this piece of jewelry . There 's a picture of me inside . Do n't refuse it . It wo n't annoy you like me , because it does n't have a voice . And I beg you , please come here again tomorrow . What could you possibly ask of me that I would n't give you , as long as it did n't damage my honor and self - respect ?
You are an impatient and short-tempered fool to start nattering on like a woman , not listening to any voice but your own !
Well , time will tell . Even the most savage bull is eventually domesticated .
If we imagine these guys as they imagine themselves , then they 're first-class actors . Look , here come two noble animals , a man and a lion .
I 'll tell her .
Keep it from leaving , Marcellus .
Me too . If wishes could avail me , My purpose would not fail me , It 's there that I would go .
Oh , Julius Caesar , you are still powerful . Your ghost walks the earth and turns our swords toward our own stomachs .
Sit down and rest , father . Let 's look in his pockets . The letters he spoke of may help me . He 's dead . I 'm just sorry I had to be the one to kill him . Let 's see here . Come on , envelope , open up for me . I know it 's bad manners , but we kill our enemies to know their secrets . Reading their mail is n't as bad . " Do n't forget the vows we made to each other . You have many chances to kill Albany . If you have the strength of will to do it , you 'll have many opportunities . If he returns in triumph , then all is lost . I 'll be his prisoner , and his bed will be my prison . Help me escape him , and you can take his place . Your --I wish I could say " wife " -- loving servant , who is ready to love you , Goneril . " Is there no limit to women 's lust ? She 's plotting against the life of her virtuous husband , and wants my brother to replace him ! I 'll bury you here in a shallow grave , you messenger for lustful criminals . In due time I 'll show this ugly letter to the duke whose life 's at risk . It 's a good thing for him that I can tell him about your death and the letter you were carrying .
In a year , when things have calmed down , I 'll laugh about how those who got King Edward IV to hate me are now brought low . But as for now -- before two weeks have gone by , I 'm going to send some people packing . They have no idea what 's coming .
Not in my house , Lucentio . My servants might overhear , and old Gremio is still hanging around , so we might be interrupted .
Really , sir , I hardly think it would be appropriate for me to pound you .
Your loyalty to me requires you to tell me what you 've been talking about .
Where are you , keeper ? Give me a cup of wine .
He wants to make his followers weep .
My noble king , a powerful fleet of ships sails on the western coast . Many former friends of ours have gathered to meet the fleet and are n't willing to beat it back . Word is that Richmond is the navy 's admiral . The ships are drifting off the coast , sails unfurled , only waiting for Buckingham to help them come ashore .
Why should n't I ? Does n't he deserve it ?
Wholeheartedly , good young man .
When I was still alive , you punctured my body , the body of God 's blessed king , full of holes . Remember the Tower and me there . Despair , and die ! Harry the Sixth commands you to despair and die ! Because you are virtuous and holy , you must be the conqueror ! Harry , who prophesied that you would be king , comforts you in your sleep : live and prosper !
Just as I told you , he usually sleeps in the afternoon . At that time you can smash in his skull after seizing his books ; or you can bash his skull with a log ; or you can stab him in the belly ; or cut his windpipe . Just remember to grab his books first , since without them he 's just a poor fool like me , and ca n't command a single spirit . All the spirits hate him as much as I do . Be sure to burn his magic books . He has some wonderful home furnishings -- that 's what he calls them -- that he 'll use to decorate his house when he gets one . The most important thing for you to think about is how beautiful his daughter is . He says she has no equal . I never saw a woman except her and Sycorax , my mother . But Miranda is so much more beautiful , you ca n't even compare the two .
Amen , dear goddess . Listen to our prayer . If it 's sad to see a handsome man with a cheating wife , it 's a tragedy to see an ugly thug with a wife who 's faithful . Therefore , dear Isis , do the right thing and give him the fortune he deserves .
My lord , your brother John was caught by armed soldiers as he fled . He 's been brought back to Messina .
That skull had a tongue in it once and could sing . That jackass is throwing it around as if it belonged to Cain , who did the first murder ! It might be the skull of a politician once capable of talking his way around God , right ? And now this idiot is pulling rank on him .
Carry them away . Our business now is mourning and grief . My friends and soulmates , you two will reign over this kingdom and keep the wounded country alive .
You 're wrong , you madman . There 's no darkness except ignorance , and you 're more ignorant than the Egyptians during the plague of fog .
Waiting to get your suits granted ?
Can you do that ?
Good morning , young miss , where are you going?- -Tell me , sweet Kate , and tell me truly , have you ever seen a young gentlewoman blooming more with health ? The way the shades of white and red compete in her complexion . Which of the stars in heaven shine with such beauty as the two eyes that sparkle in that heavenly face ? Fair lovely maid , once more good day to you . --Sweet Kate , embrace her for her beauty .
Nurse , give my regards to to your lady . I swear to you --
Forgive me , darling Rosalind .
Why does he last longer ?
Sir , he should have as many as Caesar has . If he had that many friends , then he would n't need us . If Caesar chose , Antony would jump at the chance to be his friend . As for us , you know we are Antony 's , and he is Caesar 's .
Indeed , they say my uncle grew so fast that he could gnaw on a crust of bread when he was two hours old . It took me two years before I had a single tooth . Grandmother , this would have been a biting joke .
It 's rare that a bee builds its nest in a dead animal 's carcass . The Prince wo n't leave his current company .
I swear I 'm not lying . Oh , you murderous fool ! How did you ever get such a good wife ?
Up .
Has he heard the good news yet ? Tell him .
Yes , and I 'll keep crying a while longer .
I 'll swear by my sword that you love me , too , and I 'll make any man who says that I do n't love you eat it .
He deserves it , even if it were covered with jewels like holy Phoebus ' car . Give me your hand . Let 's have a cheerful march through Alexandria , proudly carrying our dented shields . If we had enough room in the palace to house this army , we 'd all eat together and toast tomorrow , which promises to be full of danger . Trumpeters , blast the city 's ears . Mix your fanfares with our drums , so that sounds from both heaven and earth will herald our approach .
Cheer up and be at peace .
Then that 's the way it 'll be . The truth will be all the inheritance you get . I swear by the sacred sun , by the mysterious moon , and by all the planets that rule our lives , that I disown you now as my daughter . As of now , there are no family ties between us , and I consider you a stranger to me . Foreign savages who eat their own children for dinner will be as close to my heart as you , ex - daughter of mine .
As for Hamlet and his attentions to you , just consider it a big flirtation , the temporary phase of a hot-blooded youth . It wo n't last . It 's sweet , but his affection will fade after a minute . Not a second more .
Lucillius and Titinius , order the commanders to have the men camp for the night .
But did I fall or not ?
Would anyone like to bet twenty prisoners with me ?
" M. " But then the next letter is n't the same . " A " should be next , but instead " O " comes next .
The smiling morning is replacing the frowning night . Darkness is stumbling out of the sun 's path like a drunk man . Now , before the sun comes up and burns away the dew , I have to fill this basket of mine with poisonous weeds and medicinal flowers . The Earth is nature 's mother and also nature 's tomb . Plants are born out of the Earth , and they are buried in the Earth when they die . From the Earth 's womb , many different sorts of plants and animals come forth , and the Earth provides her children with many excellent forms of nourishment . Everything nature creates has some special property , and each one is different . Herbs , plants , and stones possess great power . There is nothing on Earth that is so evil that it does not provide the earth with some special quality . And there is nothing that does not turn bad if it 's put to the wrong use and abused . Virtue turns to vice if it 's misused . Vice sometimes becomes virtue through the right activity .
Get out of here , you ! Get away , you rude fellow !
Bridegroom ? This guy is more like the groom who cleans the stable -- a grumbling groom at that , as the poor girl is discovering .
That 's for sure . We 're lucky that Rome is rid of him .
I do n't know what you mean , madam .
Brabantio , with all due respect , I 'm here out of courtesy and good will . I 've come to tell you --
Please , tell me some of them .
One Plantagenet pays for the other . One Edward dies to pay a debt for the other Edward who died .
Yet you killed my children .
Do you dare kill a friend of mine ?
Why the line " silver sound " ? What do they mean , " music with her silver sound " ? What do you say , Simon Catling ?
What a silly monster , to think a poor drunk is wonderful .
No , it 's a shade browner than Judas 's -- but his kisses are just like Judas 's .
Yes , do that .
He 's standing ready outside the door . Here he comes , my lord .
Ah well , my Kate . We 'll go to your father 's house dressed as we are , in simple but honest clothes . Our purses shall be rich , our garments poor . After all , it 's the mind that enriches the body , and just as the sun shines through the darkest clouds , well , that 's how clearly honor peeps through even the humblest style of dress . I mean , is the jay more precious than the lark because his feather is more beautiful ? Is the snake better than the eel because the pattern on his back pleases the eye ?
Sir John Falstaff !
What ? Is this true ?
This ring , sir-- oh no , it 's nothing . I 'd be ashamed to give you this .
As brave as Hector , surely . And you could say that he is wise in managing fights , for he either avoids them discreetly or enters into them timidly .
Me neither . I 'm wide awake . They all fell asleep together , as if they 'd planned it . Like they 'd all been struck by lightning . What might happen , Sebastian , what might happen if --No , it 's time for me to shut up . -- But still , I think I can see in your face what you ought to be . Opportunity 's knocking for you , and in my imagination I see a crown dropping onto your head .
That is excellent , madame !
I gave your little present to my girlfriend because you ca n't get a grip on Malvolio 's nose to whip your horse with it . My girlfriend has beautiful white hands , and great warriors are n't mom-and-pop diners , you know .
How did he take the offer , my lord ?
Once again , that it would be breaking his oath to pardon any prisoner . Nevertheless , for the crowns that you 've promised him , he is willing to give you freedom , liberty .
Duncan 's son Malcolm , whose birthright and throne Macbeth has stolen , lives in the English court . There , the saintly King Edward treats Malcolm so well that despite Malcolm 's misfortunes , he 's not deprived of respect . Macduff went there to ask King Edward for help . He wants Edward to help him form an alliance with the people of Northumberland and their lord , Siward . Macduff hopes that with their help -- and with the help of God above -- he may once again put food on our tables , bring peace back to our nights , free our feasts and banquets from violent murders , allow us to pay proper homage to our king , and receive honors freely . Those are the things we pine for now . Macbeth has heard this news and he is so angry that he 's preparing for war .
Not one , my lord . Anyway , even if he had the money now , the Jew probably would n't take it . I 've never seen a creature with a human shape who was so eager to destroy a man . He 's at the duke 's morning and night , accusing the state of harming free trade if they deny him justice . Twenty merchants , the duke himself , and the highest-ranking Venetian nobles have all tried to persuade him to forget his contract , but nobody can do it . He 's determined to get the penalty specified in his contract with Antonio .
Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead .
The Emperor is calling for Canidius .
I 'm at your service until death .
Oh , it breaks my heart to think how painful it must be for you to recall all this , things that I ca n't remember . But please tell me more .
Who was it ?
No , son . Tell me .
What country is this , friends ?
Gentle Earl , do n't abandon your wisdom . All your allies are depending on you and your well - being . If you allow yourself to indulge in this kind of stormy emotion , your health will deteriorate even further . Before you said , " Let 's raise an army , " you calculated how the war might end , and you thought carefully about the likeliness of a victory . You knew from the beginning that , once the fighting started , your son might die . You knew that he was treading dangerously , as if on the edge of a precipice : you knew he was more likely to fall over than make it across . You were warned that your son was made of flesh and blood , and that it was possible he 'd get hurt . You were warned that his temper and hot - headedness would push him into the most dangerous situations . But you still said , " Go forward . " None of this consideration , even though it was clearly understood , could stop the stubborn course of events . So what happened here ? What has been the result of this brave undertaking ? Only this : precisely what was likely to happen in the first place .
No , please do n't hate him -- for my sake .
Are they washing out his wounds with their tears ? I 'll cry my tears for Romeo 's banishment when their tears are dry . Pick up this rope ladder . This poor rope ladder , it 's useless now , just like me , because Romeo has been exiled . He made this rope ladder to be a highway to my bed , but I am a virgin , and I will die a virgin and a widow . Let 's go , rope ladder . Nurse , I 'm going to lie in my wedding bed . And death , not Romeo , can take my virginity !
Now I 'll stand up . Sit still and listen to the last of our sad sea adventures . We arrived here on this island , where I , acting as your teacher , have given you a better education than most princesses get , princesses who have less careful tutors , who spend their time instead on empty fun .
You shallow thinker ! You worthless man ! You are about as much of a thinker as worm 's meat is a nice steak . Learn from the wise , and comprehend : the courtier 's perfume is made from cat discharge -- much more disgusting than tar . Fix your example , shepherd .
Did you hear her speak ? Is her voice pitched high or low ?
It 's disgusting , sleeping that way -- like a pig in the gutter ! Alas , grim death , how vile and ugly your near - twin , sleep , is ! Gentlemen , I think I 'll play a trick on this lout . What do you think ? Say we were to carry him to one of the bedrooms , put fresh clothes on him and rings on his fingers , lay out a wonderful feast by his bed , and have servants in fancy dress near him when he wakes up -- would n't the poor tramp be confused ?
Will no one back me up ? Am I all alone ? That would make anyone cry enough to water his garden with his tears .
He wished that our endeavor would go well today . I 'm afraid we 've been found out .
No trouble , sir . I like singing .
Oh , lieutenant ! What villains did this to you ?
How should I murder him , Iago ?
Brother , the King 's driven your nephew crazy .
Then no man has ever been honest .
When he 's there next time , I 'll send my daughter to see him . You and I will hide behind the arras and watch what happens . If it turns out that Hamlet 's not in love after all , and has n't gone mad from love , then you can fire me from my court job and I 'll go work on a farm .
Ha ha , is that what you say , kid ? Are you down there , my man?- -Come on , you hear this guy down in the basement . Agree to swear .
I changed my mind .
No doubt , my lord .
My dagger , little nephew ? With all my heart .
He has n't told this to the king , has he ?
Do n't mourn over this unhappy reversal of fortune at the end of my life . Remember my earlier lot , when I lived as the greatest , most noble prince in the world . I 'm not dying shamefully , doffing my helmet to my countryman like a coward , but as a Roman , honorably conquered by another Roman . Now I feel my soul leaving . I ca n't speak any more .
May vultures eat out his lungs , too ! You know the old saying , " What happened to the life I used to lead ? " Well , they 're here ; welcome to these pleasant days .
I wish I was your bird .
Who 's commanding them , sir ?
I knew all this , but to tell you the truth , this terrible grief had pushed it out of my thoughts . Come inside ; I want to hear everyone 's ideas on the best way to defend ourselves and enact our revenge . Send out messengers and letters , and make new allies quickly . Our numbers have never been smaller , but there 's never been more need for what we have to do .
My God , I 'm bleeding ! I 've been mortally wounded . I 'll kill him !
Those trumpets are calling us in to dinner . The Venetians are waiting for their food . Go in , and do n't cry . Everything will be all right .
Or walk either . You 'll just lie there like sleeping dogs and say nothing .
Thank you , sir . Where can we draw up the necessary papers and get this settled ?
Yes , I am the pink flower -- the master , of courtesy and manners .
Playing with a eunuch is the same as playing with a woman . Will you play with me , sir ?
You thought about it too long , considering what you found there .
My drunkenness went away when anger took over . One weakness led to another , to make me hate myself .
You think you sound like a king ? You play me , and I 'll play my father .
It 's the Emperor , madam .
You know me too well . I am Benedick .
Play the music . --Take my hands , my queen , and we 'll lull these people to sleep with our soft dancing . Now that you and I are friends again , we can dance for Duke Theseus tomorrow at midnight , and bless his marriage and his marriage bed . These other lovers will get married alongside him , and they 'll all be in high spirits .
Brother --
Come with me to see the duchess .
I do n't have it with me .
What if I 'd said I saw him do something to hurt you ? Or heard him say something about it . You know there are jerks out there who have to brag about bedding some woman . --
What news do you bring ?
What 's the total I owe you ?
Me too .
Or you can pretend to settle your differences until this matter with Pompey is finished . You can argue as much as you like when there 's nothing else to do .
I 'm telling you , it 's hers .
What on earth does that mean ?
We 're unprepared for this wedding celebration . What , has my daughter gone to see Friar Lawrence ?
For God 's sake , do n't go to these wars ! Father - in - law , you once broke your word when you had better reason to keep it than you do now . Your own son Percy -- my heart 's beloved Harry -- looked northward again and again , hoping to see his father coming with an army . But he hoped in vain . Who persuaded you to stay home that time ? Two honors were lost in that battle : yours , and your son 's . As for yours , I hope God will make it shine again . As for Harry 's honor , it clung to him like the sun in a pale blue sky , and by its light every knight in England was moved to act bravely . He was the mirror in which noble youths dressed themselves . All men copied his way of walking , except those who had no legs . And talking loudly and quickly -- the one flaw nature had given him -- became the speech pattern for all brave men . Those who spoke softly and slowly would corrupt their proper speech , just to seem more like
I do n't understand all dat .
Certainly . Everyone who can hear has heard about it .
I would 've been happy if the whole army had had sex with her , the lowest-ranking grunts and all , as long as I did n't know anything about it . Oh , goodbye to my peace of mind ! Goodbye to my happiness ! Goodbye to the soldiers and to the wars that make men great ! Goodbye ! Goodbye to the horses and the trumpets and the drums , the flute and the splendid banners , and all those proud displays and pageantry of war ! And you deadly cannons that roar like thunderbolts thrown by the gods , goodbye ! Othello 's career is over .
Do n't you know , Hal ? Adam fell from grace when the world was innocent . What should poor Jack Falstaff do , now that the world is wicked ? You see I have more flesh than other men . It follows that I 'm more fallible than other men . --So you 're confessing to picking my pocket ?
I know you know something --
I will be angry . What business is it of yours?- -Father , be quiet . He 'll stay as long as I say .
And you will be , or some people here will suffer for it .
Not true . I gained my experience .
Good morning to you . Welcome . You look like a person who knows the business of war . When we love our job we get up early and go to it joyfully .
The clock has chimed midnight . Lovers , it 's time to go to bed . It 's almost fairy time . I 'm afraid we 're going to oversleep in the morning as late as we 've stayed up tonight . This blatantly stupid play helped us kill the time until bed . Dear friends , let 's go to bed . We 'll continue this celebration for two weeks , with nightly parties and new fun .
I could , sir . But I do n't want to now . This is just a trick to take my mind off what I 'm asking you for . Please hire Cassio again .
Who 's this well-equipped leader coming here to confront us ?
Good luck to any man who trusts you . I swore that you would come with the necklace , but neither you nor the necklace showed up . Perhaps you were concerned about being chained to me and so decided not to come .
Oh Banquo , Banquo , the king has been murdered !
Fine . Change the Trent 's course .
Freeze !
Gracious madam , I only brought the news . I did n't make the match .
The king is coming here tonight .
Oh , Charmian , where do you think he is now ? Is he standing or sitting ? Or is he walking ? Or is he on his horse ? Oh , how fortunate that horse is to have Antony on him . Do well , horse . Do you know whom it is you carry ? A man who carries responsibility for a third of the world on his shoulders . He 's speaking now , or perhaps he 's whispering , " Where 's my serpent of the Nile ? " For that 's his pet name for me . I 'm killing myself with this provocative speculation ... Are you thinking about me ? Even though I 've been darkened by the sun and wrinkled with age ? Caesar , with your broad forehead , when you were alive , I was the perfect young consort for a king . And powerful Pompey used to stare at me as if he were frozen in time . Referring to two previous lovers , Julius Caesar and Gneius Pompey .I was the perfect young consort for a king . And powerful Pompey used to stare at me as if he were frozen in time .
Yes , my good lord . He 's lying dead in a ditch , with twenty deep gashes in his head , any one of which would have been enough to kill him .
I thought I heard a voice cry , " Sleep no more ! Macbeth is murdering sleep . " Innocent sleep . Sleep that soothes away all our worries . Sleep that puts each day to rest . Sleep that relieves the weary laborer and heals hurt minds . Sleep , the main course in life 's feast , and the most nourishing .
Her husband , you rascal . Are you going to get me in trouble ?
That wicked Jew got the duke to listen to his complaints . The duke went with him to search Bassanio 's ship .
I 'll go ahead of you , sir . Mistress , be on the lookout when you 're staring out the window . A Christian 's coming who 'll be worth a Jewess 's glance .
Did you talk with this woman ? What kind of scheme do you have going together ?
I assure you it is , madam .
The king and queen are coming down with everyone else .
No , you 're getting Fortune and Nature mixed up : Nature determines how we 're made , and Fortune decides what happens to us .
Here he comes with Captain Jamy , the Scots captain .
Is it a habit of his ? Or did the letter make him emotional somehow , and this is the first time he 's done it ?
Believe me , I 've been better .
I do n't know , and he wo n't tell me .
That 's noble of you , master . What shall I do for you ? Just tell me . What shall I do ?
Is he alone ?
It 's a long story -- and tough to listen to . It 's enough that I 'm here according to my promise , though I will have to deviate from it to some extent -- for reasons which , when I explain them later , you 'll understand completely . But where is Kate ? We 're wasting time here . It 's getting late and time we were in church .
There 's more to this ring than its cash value . I 'll give you the most expensive ring in Venice , and I 'll make a public announcement to help me find it . But as for this ring , please excuse me .
Well , because I saw your niece Olivia treat the count 's messenger better than she 's ever treated me . I saw it in the orchard .
Separate them . They 're overdoing it .
I see you 've changed your life , alright . From praying to pursesnatching .
You are the best of the cutthroats . But whoever did the same to Fleance must also be good . If you cut both their throats , then you are the absolute best .
I know the burden of hosting him is both an honor and a trouble , but that does n't mean it 's not a trouble just the same .
Claudio , take my daughter , and , with her , take my fortunes . The Prince has made the match , and may God bless it .
Then , rejecting my request , you kill me , instead . Goodbye .
How could I honorably give him what I 've already given you ?
On a night like this , Medea gathered magic herbs to rejuvenate old Aeson .
It 's safer to toy with a lion cub than an old , dying lion .
You may , Mark Antony .
Wish me luck . Thank you , dear Nurse .
Are they really going to give her a Christian burial after she killed herself ? In Shakespeare 's time , people who committed suicide were not given a Christian burial.after she killed herself ?
A good laugh .
Oh , cut my bodice - staps so that my pent-up heart can have some room to breathe , or I 'll faint from this deadly news !
You might as well just say for " a day , " and forget the " ever " part . No , Orlando , men are like April when they 're wooing a girl -- young , and passionate -- but like December once they 're married and their passions have cooled . Women are as sweet and temperate as springtime when they 're single , but the climate changes once they 're married . I 'll be more jealous of you than a wild rooster over his hen ; more noisy than a parrot chattering about the rain ; more fond of new things than an ape ; more giddy about getting what I want than a monkey . I 'll cry at nothing , and I 'll always do it when you 're in a good mood . And when you want to go to sleep , I 'll be up laughing like a hyena .
Your Highness --
I 'm off , my lord .
Signior Balthasar , you look upset . I hope the good meal I 'm going to give you will show the goodwill I bear you and how welcome you are .
If my fellow schoolmaster were n't keeping such a close watch on her , I 'd think about eloping . Then it would n't matter what anyone said --I 'd keep what 's mine , whatever the rest of the world said .
I am the greatest , but I was able to do the least . I am under the most suspicion , because I was here at the time of this awful murder . And here I stand , you can question me and punish me . I have already condemned and excused myself .
We 'll bring him to his house with shouts and celebration !
What are you going to do ?
better right away . When he leaves , it 's very important that I talk to you .
Here , catch this box . It 'll be worth your while . I 'm glad it 's nighttime and you ca n't see me . I 'm ashamed of my disguise . But love is blind , and lovers ca n't see the silly things they do around each other . If they could , Cupid himself would be embarassed to see me dressed up as a boy .
Yes , sir , a sponge that soaks up the king 's approval , his rewards , and his decisions . Officers like that give the king the best service in the end . He keeps them in his mouth like an ape . First he moves them around , then he swallows them . When he needs what you have found out , he can just squeeze you like a sponge and you 'll be dry again .
A soothsayer tells you to beware of March 15th .
It would be her lucky day if you did . But I never said that .
And my heart too .
His daughters want to kill him . Ah , good old Kent said this would happen -- that poor , banished man . You say the king is losing his mind . Let me tell you , my friend , I 'm almost insane myself . I had a son , whom I 've legally disowned . He tried to kill me recently , very recently . I loved him , as much as any father ever loved his son . To tell you the truth , I 'm crazed with grief .
Oh , traitors , villains !
Yes , you have to tell us why , Sir Andrew .
Oh Romeo , Romeo , brave Mercutio is dead ! His brave spirit has floated up to heaven , but it was too early for him to leave life on earth .
When Jacob took care of his uncle Laban 's sheep --Jacob was the heir to his grandfather Abraham 's birthright , because his mother cleverly arranged for her husband Isaac to make Jacob his heir --
Madam , now it really is in tune .
Why , what 's Tybalt 's story ?
Even for a Florentine , I never knew someone so kind and honest .
Oh , I 'll beat him up for that !
Wait ! Hold on , wife . I do n't understand . How can this be ? She refuses ? Is n't she grateful ? Is n't she proud of such a match ? Does n't she realize what a blessing this is ? Does n't she realize how unworthy she is of the gentleman we have found to be her bridegroom ?
I 'll come at you with another : " I 'd like to see you try it ! "
Run , run , my lord . We ca n't wait here .
I think there 's a lot of sense in what he says .
Tranio , I think I 've got it !
My horse , my love . My horse .
I 'm not , I promise you that .
Come on , servant , come . I 'm ready now . Come here , Ariel .
It 's Hamlet 's writing . " Naked , " he says . And in a P. S. he adds , " alone . " Can you help me out with this ?
That 's a nice thought to lie between a girl 's legs .
If they had any allegiance when they were chosen for the Prince 's watch , a punishment like that would be too good for them .
I wo n't go back on my promise ; I 'll marry you . You 've won me over with your faith .
Indeed , master . Let 's keep quiet and watch .
Then go back to your Scottish prisoners . Release them at once , without ransom . Make friends with Douglas , and use his influence to gather an army in Scotland . He 'll gladly help you for many reasons , which I 'll write you about soon . Now you , sir . While your son is busy in Scotland , you will strike up a close alliance with the Archbishop , that noble , well - beloved churchman .
This harms my reputation . Either pay this sum , Antipholus , or I 'll have this officer arrest you .
And for the sake of those you grieve for , do me a favor : tell me the full story of what has happened to you and them , up to this point .
Dear Sir Toby , do n't do anything rash tonight . Ever since the Duke 's messenger visited Olivia , she 's been upset . As for Monsieur Malvolio , let me take care of him . I 'll make a big fool out of him , just trust me . I 'll make him famous for his stupidity . Everyone will laugh at him . I know I can do it .
In my imagination , Horatio .
Sir , you 're lucky I caught up with you . Bassanio thought about it some more and sent this ring to you . He would like to invite you to dinner .
I can tell you , but young Romeo will be older when you find him than he was when you started looking for him . I am the youngest man by that name , because there is no one younger , or worse .
Quiet , Doll . Do n't talk like a death 's - head . Do n't make me think of my own end .
I 'll wait on them with all respect and duty .
You 're well - educated , Horatio . Say something to it .
You 're a natural-born philosopher ! Were you ever at court , shepherd ?
First , mighty king , tell me what you want me to tell him .
Some wine , Francis .
If I gave them all I own , I 'd have two fool 's caps for myself . Here 's mine . Ask your daughters for another one .
Well go on home . Thursday it is , then . Visit Juliet before you go to bed . Get her ready , my wife , for this wedding day . Farewell , my lord . Now I 'm off to bed . Oh my ! It 's so late that we might as well call it early . Good night .
Is n't that him ?
He thanks you on his knees many times and considers himself fortunate to have fallen into the hands of one , as he thinks , who is the bravest , most valorous , and thrice - worthy gentleman of England .
Cousin , what if we brought that clownish fool of your father 's court , Touchstone ? Would n't he be a comfort to us in our travels ?
What woman 's servant ? What do you mean , beside yourself ?
Find the people whose names are on this list ? It is written that shoemakers and tailors should play with each others ' tools , that fisherman should play with paints , and painters should play with with fishing nets . But I 've been sent to find the people whose names are written on this list , and I ca n't read ! I 'll never find them on my own . I 've got to find somebody who knows how to read to help me . But here come some people , right in the nick of time .
You do n't think you can teach her ?
Well , officer , I charge you to arrest him .
Pistol , tell me more , and help me think of something good we can do for you . Boots , boots , Master Shallow ! I know the young King is dying to see me . Let 's just take anybody 's horses ; I rule the laws of England now ! Blessed are those who have been my friends , and watch out , Lord Chief Justice !
Do n't act like you 're doing me a favor ! This is like if I asked you to wear your gloves when it 's cold outside , or eat nutritious food , or do something that 's good for you . If I ever have to ask you for something that will put your luck to the test , it 'll be something difficult and terrible .
No , none at all .
And did you take the message to Baptista ?
He is definitely not there , sir . I have a list of all the important men . Siward 's son is there , as well as many boys too young to have beards who will become men by joining in this battle .
The humiliation is all mine . You forced me to accept this man against my will , this fancy con artist who was in such a hurry to get engaged . He has no intention of marrying me . I knew it --I told you . The whole thing was a joke . He pretends to be this simple , backward guy , but it 's all a gag to amuse his witty friends . He goes around proposing to women -- they set a date , he gets introduced around , they send out the invitations and make a public announcement , but he has no intention of going through with it . So now everyone will point at me and say , " Look , there goes the wife of that comedian Petruchio -- if he could be bothered to marry the pathetic thing ! "
Where 's Poins , Hal ?
He has a father , and yet he is fatherless .
Definitely not .
Stop !
But how , unless she drowned in self - defense ?
If you wo n't leave , then I 'll leave .
Come on , where 's the young show-off who 's so eager to lie with mother earth ?
Nerissa , welcome this stranger . --Salerio , welcome . Any news from Venice ? How 's the great merchant Antonio doing ? I know he 'll be happy to hear of our success . We 're like the ancient hero Jason , we went looking for the Golden Fleece and we won it !
Tom 's chilly .
Macbeth ! Macbeth ! Macbeth ! Beware Macduff . Beware the thane of Fife . Let me go . Enough .
I had a scar here that looked like a " T " ; now it 's an " H. "
She was fickle and unfaithful , like water .
And I swear I spoke honestly to Benedick --I am in love with Hero .
Alas , how passionate and angry he looks !
Look ! He 's trembling in his fit !
Hermia 's love , and now you 're competing to see which one of you can make fun of me the most . That 's a great idea , a really manly thing to do -- making a poor girl cry ! No respectable person would offend an innocent girl just to have some fun .
I 've rubbed this young pimple until he 's ready to pop , and now he 's angry . Whether he kills Cassio , or Cassio kills him , or they kill each other , it all works in my favor . If Roderigo survives , though , he 'll ask me for all the gold and jewelry that I stole from him and said I gave to Desdemona . I ca n't let that happen . If Cassio survives , he 's so handsome and well-spoken that he makes me look ugly . And besides , the Moor might tell him about my lies about him . --That would be very dangerous for me . No , he 's got to die . Let it be so . I hear him coming .
Stop it , I say . --Good evening to you , friend .
Have you forgotten the torture I freed you from ?
Oh , lovely . Can I have some ?
Go , Sir Andrew . Look out for him in the corner of the orchard as if you were a sheriff 's deputy . As soon as you see him , draw your sword , and as you draw it , start swearing horribly . Sometimes a terrible swear word , like a well-shot arrow , makes you look more brave and manly than getting in a fight would . Now go !
And that 's why he went crazy . A jealous woman 's poisonous ranting is worse than the bite of a rabid dog . You disturbed his sleep with your complaining , which is why he 's disoriented . You seasoned his food with screams . Stress during mealtime ruins the digestion , and that gave him a raging fever . Fever , as we know , is a kind of madness . You spoiled his fun by fighting with him , and when people ca n't enjoy themselves , they grow moody and dull with melancholy -- they come very close to being grim and cheerlessly depressed . Next thing you know , all kinds of terrible illnesses break out . Ruining his meals , his enjoyment , and his sleep would drive any man or beast mad . What I 'm saying is , your jealousy has pushed your husband away from his sanity .
Let thunder rumble ! Let lightning spit fire ! Let the rain spray ! The rain , the wind , the thunder and lightning are not my daughters . Nature , I do n't accuse your weather of unkindness . I never gave you a kingdom or raised you as my child , and you do n't owe me any obedience . So go ahead and have your terrifying fun . Here I am , your slave -- a poor , sick , weak , hated old man . But I can still accuse you of kowtowing , taking my daughters ' side against me , ancient as I am . Oh , it 's foul !
The enemy 's losses have been very great , pretty substantial . To tell the truth , though , I think the duke has n't lost a single man , except for one who will probably be executed for robbing a church , one Bardolph --I do n't know if your Majesty knows the man . His face is all pustules and pockmarks , and pimples and inflammation , and his lips blow up toward his nose , which is like a red-hot coal , sometimes blue , sometimes red . But his nose is dead , and the fire 's put out .
sheep nibble , the furrows that April covers with flowers for nymphs to make crowns with . You must leave the groves where the disappointed bachelor lurks , rejected by his love , and the well - pruned vineyards , and the rocky seashore .
Oh , God help me ! Since when have you claimed to be such a great wit ?
Thank you for giving me this honor . I 'll take care of it immediately .
If I live to see it , I 'll never trust his word again .
My Cesario ?
What animal ? Why , an otter .
Yes , sir . She took the letters and read them in front of me . Now and then a large tear trickled down her delicate cheek . She seemed to be trying to control her emotions , which were overwhelming her .
Please leave it to me to take care of the burial , as I have more reason to mourn than you do . Meanwhile go to my estate at Crosby Place . After I have performed the solemn burial rites for this noble king at Chertsey monastery and cried with regret at his grave , I 'll hurry to meet you . For various reasons that must remain secret , please do this for me .
Huh ! Do you really mean that ?
His reputation was ruined by their scornful attitudes . He lost face by laughing with those joking boys , and tolerating the rudeness of every smooth - faced , disdainful prankster . He spent his time in common , public places , surrendering himself to the pursuit of popularity . Soon , they saw him every day and it was like overdosing on honey ; they began to hate the taste of that sweetness . A little too much is as bad as far too much . Seeing him became as common a sight as a cuckoo in June - -heard but not paid attention to ; seen , but by eyes so used to seeing that they took it for granted . They did n't look with a special gaze , as they do at the sun when it shines only rarely . Instead , they grew bored , they looked away . They slept in front of him and watched him dully , the way a sullen man looks at his enemy . They were stuffed , gorged , and full with his presence . And that is just where you stand , Harry . You have lost your princely status by associating with vile criminals : there 's not an eye in the kingdom that is n't weary of looking at you . No eyes except mine , that is , which had wished to see more of you ; and now they 're acting against me , blinding themselves with foolish tears .
What 's amazing is how long he lasted . He was living on borrowed time at the end .
Well , Tranio , here we are in fertile Lombardy , garden of Italy , about to fulfill my lifelong dream . You know how I 've always longed to see the fair city of Padua , famous for its arts and letters , and now , thanks to my father 's generosity , here I am -- with his blessing and your good company . So , my trusty servant -- and you 've never let me down -- why do n't we settle here for a time to institute a course of study , a really rigorous curriculum . I was born in Pisa , famous for its serious citizens , like my father before me ; my father , Vincentio , a successful , world - traveled merchant , was one of the Bentivolii . It 's only fitting that I , his son , reared in Florence , should concentrate on adding more virtuous deeds to my father 's own , stacking them on top of his wealth . For this reason , Tranio , I 'll study ethics and -- for the time being , anyway -- pursue those areas of Bentivolii that teach a man how to achieve happiness through virtue . What do you think of all this ? Leaving Pisa for Padua , Bentivolii a little like a thirsty man who turns from a puddle to a vast lake he can drink from .
Look behind you , my lord .
You tell her , widow !
Ask him why he 's stepping forward .
I came here to tell you --I 'll make this short , since she 's already been talked about for too long -- the lady is unfaithful .
She is in a better place . You could not prevent her from dying someday , but heaven will give her eternal life . The most you hope for was for her to marry wealthy and rise up the social ladder -- that was your idea of heaven . And now you cry , even though she has risen up above the clouds , as high as heaven itself ? Oh , in this love , you love your child so badly , that you go mad , even though she is in heaven . It is best to marry well and die young , better than to be married for a long time . Dry up your tears , and put your rosemary on this beautiful corpse . And , in accordance with custom , carry her to the church in her best clothes . It 's natural for us to shed tears for her , but the truth is , we should be happy for her .
As for where you live , tell us quickly -- get to the point .
No one , Brutus , no one .
If this letter does n't make him fight , I do n't know what will . I 'll give it to him .
Oh , I 've seen you in the moon , and I worship you . My mistress showed me you in the moon and your dog and your bush .
You 're right , Lysander 's admirable too . But since your father does n't want him to marry you , you have to consider Demetrius to be the better man .
The duke will be here tonight ? All the better -- in fact it 's the best that could happen . His arrival fits perfectly into my plan . My father 's ready to arrest my brother , and I have one risky thing to do . Fast work and a little luck are all I need . --Brother , could I have a word with you ? Come down , brother .
Your ear is good . Cassius , what a night this is !
He thinks that since his fortune is twenty times better than yours , it would be like pitting twenty men against one .
Tell me , Fluellen : did you just come from the bridge ?
They 're all in uniform , all armed . They look like feathered ostriches ; like eagles beating their wings after a bath ; like statues painted gold . They 're as lively as the springtime ; as gorgeous as the midsummer sun ; as giddy as young goats ; as wild as young bulls . I saw young Harry with his helmet on , and armor on his thighs . Armed with powerful weapons , he rose off the ground like the winged god Mercury , and leaped so effortlessly into his saddle , it was as if an angel had dropped out of the sky to ride a fiery Pegasus , and bewitch the world with his incredible horsemanship .
Hey ! Does anyone hear me ? Hey ! You have to come and greet the master and face the new mistress .
Welcome , Jack . Where 've you been ?
I 'm amazed you got here before me . But I 'm overjoyed ! My love , if the calm after the storm could always be this wonderful , I 'd want the wind to blow until it waked the dead , and whipped up waves as tall as mountains ! If I died right now I 'd be completely happy , since I 'll probably never be as happy as this again in my life .
Oh , yes they will . They 've already stationed troops there .
I 'll give you a thousand pounds for it . Ask for it whenever you want it , and it 's yours .
Go , lad , and find out what the trumpet 's sounding for .
Welcome , sir . You just missed a fight that was barely avoided .
Since I ca n't amuse myself by being a lover , I 've decided to become a villain . I 've set dangerous plans in motion , using lies , drunken prophecies , and stories about dreams to set my brother Clarence and the king against each other . If King Edward is as honest and fair-minded as I am deceitful and cruel , then Clarence is going to be locked away in prison today because of a prophecy that " G " will murder Edward 's children . Oh , time to hide what I 'm thinking -- here comes Clarence .
Captain Macmorris , if you take my words in some way other than how they were meant , see , I 'll have to think you 're not treating me with the good will you ought to , see , since I am as good a man as yourself , both in the practice of war and in my country of origin and in other respects .
Then you 'll go to war in a dressing gown . We 'll get rid of your cold , and I 'll give orders for some of my men to ring the bells for you while you 're away . Is this everybody ?
Is this how it 's going to be ?
Please , marry us .
Come on , you 're drunk .
Madam , here comes your husband .
Yes , good idea ; that 's the eftest way . Bring the watchmen forward . Gentlemen , I order you in the Prince 's name to accuse these men .
Sir John , you 're under arrest for charges brought by Mistress Quickly .
And they 've got their swords unsheathed ! Let 's call for help and get them tied up again !
I do n't like what you 're asking me to do . But since I 've gotten myself involved this far , because I 'm so stupidly honest and because I like you so much , I 'll keep going . I recently shared a bed with Cassio , and I could n't sleep because of a raging toothache . Well , some people talk in their sleep , and Cassio is one of them . I heard him saying , " Sweet Desdemona , let 's be careful and hide our love , " in his sleep . And then he grabbed my hand and said , " Oh , my darling ! " and
But Antonio 's certainly ruined .
When you 've finished , go back to Pompey 's theater .
A Roman .
You were about to speak .
I swear on my life , which I take pretty seriously , even if I am a magician . So put on your best clothes and tell your friends to come . Because if you want to be married tomorrow , you will , and if you want to be married to Rosalind , you will .
I do n't think so , my lord .
At least two hours past . We ca n't waste time between now and six o'clock .
Oh , Romeo , Romeo , why do you have to be Romeo ? Forget about your father and change your name . Or else , if you wo n't change your name , just swear you love me and I 'll stop being a Capulet .
I almost forgot about Caliban 's horrible conspiracy to kill me . The moment they planned to act is almost here . --Good job . Leave now , no more !
I 'm coming , my lord .
If you got what you deserved , you would learn some respect .
You poor soul , your face has suffered many tears .
The body 's with the king , but the king 's not with the body . The king 's a thing ...
Oh , what a time you 've chosen to be sick , brave Caius ! How I wish you felt better !
Oh , he looks like a pathetic Sunday school teacher . I 've stalked him like a murderer , and he 's done everything the letter told him to . He smiles so much his face has more lines in it than a map of the East Indies . You 've never seen anything like it . I can hardly keep myself from throwing things at him . I know that my lady 's going to end up hitting him . And when she does , he 'll imagine she 's flirting with him .
And when will that be ?
Halt .
But she is now Mark Antony 's wife .
Any villain in Denmark is going to be , well , a villain .
He has , Sir John : I 'm afraid we may be too late .
Look at Macbeth -- he 's in a daze .
When did she send you ?
Through this vow , a hundred-thousand rebels are killed . You will be given a position of command , and absolute trust in this undertaking .
Fine . Or tonight .
Blow , blow , winter wind . You are n't as harsh As men 's ingratitude . Your teeth are n't as sharp , As you are invisible , Even though your breath is an assault . Heigh-ho ! Sing , heigh-ho ! Sing to the green holly . Most friendship is false , most love simply foolishness . Then heigh-ho , to the holly . This life is really jolly . Freeze , freeze , you bitter sky , Your bite is n't as painful As when good deeds are forgotten . Even though you can freeze water Your sting is not as sharp As the friend who is forgotten . Heigh-ho ! Sing , heigh-ho ! Sing to the green holly . Most friendship is false , most love simply foolishness . Then heigh-ho , to the holly . This life is really jolly .
It wants us to speak to it .
When should the three of us meet again ? Will it be in thunder , lightning , or rain ?
Come here , Catesby . Spread the rumor abroad that Anne , my wife , is very sick . I will make sure she 's kept out of view . And find a poverty stricken gentleman who I can marry straightaway to Clarence 's daughter . Clarence 's son is dull - witted , so I 'm not worried about him . Look at you , standing there in a stupor ! I repeat , spread the rumor that Anne , my wife , is sick and likely to die . Hurry up because it 's absolutely crucial that I destroy anything that may damage my position .
Why did n't the jerk come back to me when I called him ?
Can any of your neighbors tell , Kate ? I 'll ask them . Come , I know you love me . And at night , when you go to your bedroom , you 'll question this gentlewoman about me and , I know , Kate , you 'll criticize those qualities of mine that you secretly love . But mock me gently , dear Kate , because I love you terribly . If I ever win you , Kate , as I have an inkling I will , it wo n't be without a skirmish -- and that suggests you 'd make a good mother of soldiers . Shall not you and I together , then , between Saint Denis and Saint George , make a boy , half French , half English , who will go to Constantinople
Am I supposed to talk now ?
Are you trying to make fun of me ?
I swear , I ca n't go any further , sir . My old bones are tired . We 're wandering in a maze . If you do n't mind , I need to rest a bit .
Goodbye , good sir .
I 'll be ready sooner than that , my lords ; and I 'll bring your wives along with me . You should sneak away from them now , and leave without saying goodbye . Otherwise , they 'll cry an ocean of tears when you leave them .
As I was standing watch on the hill , I looked toward Birnam , and I thought I saw the forest begin to move .
After I urged him not to kill you , I saw that he was still determined to do it . Enraged , I threatened to expose him . He answered , " You penniless bastard ! Do you really think that if it came down to my word against yours , anyone would believe you ? No. I 'd deny whatever evidence you had against me -- even if it were in my own handwriting -- and turn it all into evidence against you and your plans for treachery . And you must think people are stupid if you believe they would n't realize all the motives you have for trying to kill me . "
That 's the one .
I know his soul 's in heaven , fool .
I beg your pardon . Cassio 's been wounded .
So why does it seem so particular to you ?
I do n't know what to say to that , but the fact is I 'm Launcelot , the Jew 's servant , and Margery , your wife , is my mother .
I 'm just waiting for my flag - bearer . But , never mind , I ca n't wait . To the field ! I 'll take the banner from a trumpeter and use that . Come , let 's be off ! The sun is up and we 're wasting the day !
It wo n't go winding ? It will . It must . You see that it does .
Oh , are you really !
He sees a world built by his imagination , but that world is not the one he should be paying attention to . Nephew , listen to me a minute .
Ah , yes , that stallion . All he talks about is his horse . He thinks it 's a great credit to his character that he can shoe a horse all by himself . I 'm afraid his mother may have had an affair with a blacksmith .
Was that him just now ?
My lord , no one will believe this in Venice , even though I 'd swear I saw it with my own eyes . That was too much . You should apologize . She 's crying .
Why do you say that ?
Dear master , I ca n't go any farther . Oh , I 'm dying of hunger . I 'll lie down here and measure out my grave . Farewell , kind master .
I 'd rather get a husband from your father . Do n't you have any brothers like you ? Your father 's sons would make excellent husbands , if only a girl could catch one for herself .
Any fool can make puns ! I think the best sign of intelligence will soon be silence , and talking will only be a good thing for parrots to do . Go in and tell the servants to get ready for dinner .
Name him .
Are you going riding this afternoon ?
Oh , Brutus !
Maybe you should focus on pulling yourself out of trouble , Sampson .
Who is it ?
To my tomb ! Mardian , go tell him I 've killed myself . Say the last word I spoke was " Antony , " and please word it pathetically . Go , Mardian , and let me know how he reacts to my death . To the tomb !
Some men do n't like roast pig , others go crazy if they see a cat , and others ca n't help urinating when they hear bagpipes . There 's no sense trying to explain people 's likes and dislikes . So , to answer your question . Just as there 's no clear reason why one man does n't want a roast pig , or why another man ca n't stand a harmless and useful cat , or another ca n't tolerate bagpipes , so I ca n't give a reason , and I wo n't give a reason why I 'm pursuing this unprofitable case against him . Does that answer your question ?
What 's this , you dog ?
I 'll tear her to pieces !
Why are you giving me your purse ?
I 'm not in a joking mood . Tell me right now and stop fooling : where 's the money ? We 're strangers here . How dare you let such a large amount escape your keeping ?
I 'd even run through fire if you told me to . Radiant , beautiful Helena ! I feel like Mother Nature has allowed me to see into your heart , as if by magic . Where is Demetrius ? Oh , I 'd kill that name with my sword if I could !
I believe you are , Regan . You know why I think so ? Because if you were n't glad , I 'd divorce your dead mother , because I 'd know she cheated on me . Any true daughter of mine would definitely be glad to see me . Oh , are you free ? We 'll talk about it later .
Listen , you four confront them in the narrow lane . Ned Poins and I will wait further down . If they get away from you , they 'll run right into us .
I 've never heard such confused emotions as what that Jew dog was shouting in the streets . " My daughter , oh my ducats , oh my daughter ! Ran off with a Christian ! Oh my Christian ducats ! Justice , the law , my ducats , and my daughter , a sealed bag , two sealed bags of ducats , of double ducats , stolen from me by my daughter , and jewels -- two stones , two rich and precious stones -- stolen by my daughter ! Justice , find the girl ! She has the stones on her , and the ducats . "
Sir , Althea dreamed she gave birth to a red-hot iron . That 's why I call him her dream ; he 's all red in the face .
A merchant or a schoolmaster , sir . Well , I do n't know exactly , but his clothes are respectable , and to judge from his face and walk , he 's old enough to be Lucentio 's father .
I have it ready .
If you wish . But Count Claudio can stay , for what I 'm about to say concerns him .
I do n't want to hear you sing . I 'm not interested in anything a eunuch can do . It 's a good thing for you that , being castrated , you can better concentrate on my needs . Do you have desires ?
Your French , sir , is better than my English .
I was afraid this would happen , because he was a noble , brave man , but I did n't think he had a weapon .
I 'm ready now to hear what my good cousin the Dauphin has to say -- for I hear that the greeting you bear is from him , not the king .
What 's the matter ?
You attract me to you , you cruel magnet ! But you must not attract iron , because my heart is as true as steel . If you let go of your power to attract me , I wo n't have any power to follow you .
That must be him . The rest of the king 's guests are already inside .
Ah , he got you back , Benedick ! Leonato clearly knows your reputation with women . Seriously , though , the lady resembles Leonato so much that there can be no doubt about who her father is . Congratulations , lady : you resemble a most honorable man .
" Madam Alice ? " Or " Madam Joan ? "
Well , start thinking about marriage now . Here in Verona there are girls younger than you -- girls from noble families -- who have already become mothers . By my count , I was already your mother at just about your age , while you remain a virgin . Well then , I 'll say this quickly : the valiant Paris wants you as his bride .
I swear , I think my wife 's faithful , and I think she 's not . I think you 're trustworthy one minute and then not the next . I need proof ! Her reputation was as pure as the snow , but now it 's as dirty and black as my own face . As long as there are ropes , knives , poison , fire , or streams to drown in , I wo n't stand for this . Oh , how I wish I knew the truth !
Oh , God above !
And then ?
She was tricked , divorced , wronged , spited , killed ! Death , the most despicable thing , tricked her . Cruel , cruel Death killed her . Oh love ! Oh life ! There is no life , but my love is dead !
Yes , my lord , if you give us permission .
What will be my evidence ?
You 're right . Hang on a minute , here 's some money for you . The best place to stay around here is an inn called the Elephant , in the suburbs south of the city . I 'll arrange for our meals while you enjoy yourself and educate yourself by looking at the town . You 'll find me at the Elephant .
How are things going now ?
Greetings , good general !
Good - bye , Ophelia . Remember what I 've told you .
My lord , I wish Thursday were tomorrow .
Oh , I have awful luck .
Yes , Shylock , I 'll sign the contract and agree to its terms .
It does indeed .
You 'll find I 'll give it to you very willingly . Come , let 's have an early dinner so that we have time to work out our plans .
From under the earth .
You there , let me have a word with you . Are those men waiting for me ?
Why do you say that ? Does n't he have backup coming ?
Ah , how awful , I feel so used ! I 've been tricked !
Yes , they will .
I 'm afraid your great love and concern for me lead you to deal too harshly with this poor fellow . If minor lapses caused by drunkenness are not to be tolerated , how will we punish capital crimes that result from much planning and forethought ? No , I 'll have that man released , despite the fact that Cambridge , Scroop , and Grey , in their extreme concern for my safety , would prefer that he were punished . And now , let 's turn to our business with the French . Who are the new commissioners ?
And look . That fiery - faced Bardolph is whispering sweet nothings to Quickly , his master 's old confidante .
Ah sir , ah sir . Well , death is the end for everybody .
I will go out . The things that threaten me have only seen my back . When they see the face of Caesar , they will vanish .
The king has bet six Barbary horses , and he has prepared six French rapiers and daggers with all their accessories . Three of the carriages are very imaginatively designed , and they match the fencing accessories .
Getting right to the point , I live near the Capitol .
No , my dear , you were a little angel who kept me going . You smiled with a strength you must have gotten from heaven , while I cried salty tears into the salty sea , and groaned at our situation . Your smile sustained my spirits against whatever would come our way .
The English army , sir .
Why do you say that ?
Well , get out of here then ! What 's keeping you ?
You 'd better not make that suggestion , Agrippa . If Cleopatra heard you , you would be well punished for your audacity .
You gave me nothing , and you wrong me by saying you did .
Whatever kind you want , I guess .
They sound like they are cheering a victory .
Oh , you should know that he 's the bridle to your will .
To , to , to --
When I freed you from slavery , did n't you swear to do this when I asked you ? Do it immediately , or all your previous services to me were accidental , without purpose . Take out your sword and come on .
No , great king . I come to ask you out of charity to let us wander over this bloody field to record the numbers of our dead and bury them , separating our nobles from the common men , for many of our princes -- alas ! -- lie drowned and soaked in the blood of mercenary soldiers . Likewise , our common men lie drenched in the blood of princes , and their wounded steeds , ankle-deep in gore , struggle and , raging wildly , stamp on their dead masters with their hooves , killing them a second time . Oh , give us permission , great king , to search the field in safety and dispose of our dead bodies .
Do so . I 'll speak to them , and then tonight I 'll get them all so drunk that the wine seeps out of their old war wounds . Come on , my Queen . There 's still life in our cause . The next time I fight , I 'll make Death love me . I 'll compete even with his fatal scythe .
The next chance we get , we 'll do the deed .
She 'll be damned for it .
I wish I were with him , wherever he is -- in heaven or in hell .
But the enemy is loud . You can hear them all night long .
of nature and of nations , belong to him and his heirs . That is , give up the crown and all the extensive titles that go with it , according to custom and long use . So that you 'll know this is no dubious or farfetched claim , he sends you his family tree , every line of which supports the claim . Look over this document , and when you see that he is directly descended from his most famous of famous ancestors , Edward the Third , he demands that you resign your crown and kingdom , which you wrongfully hold at the expense of himself , the true and natural owner .
I 'll tell you the truth : I do n't care one way or the other . You only die once , and we all owe God a death . I wo n't do anything underhanded . If it 's my fate , it 's my fate . If not , not . No man is too good to serve his country . Whatever happens , happens . If you die this year , you 're paid up for next year .
Ned , where are our disguises ?
His power extended from one shore to the other , as if he straddled the ocean with his legs . When he raised his arm in command , the world trembled . He spoke exquisitely to his friends , but when he wanted to terrify the world , his voice was like thunder . There was no end to his generosity . The more he gave , the more he wanted to give . His amusements showed another side of him , one detached from his world of responsibility and duty . Kings and noblemen served him . Kingdoms and provinces dropped from his pockets like loose change .
C' mon , what 's this deed that sounds so awful even before I know what it is ?
Of course we 'll fight him by sea . What else ?
I wonder why Cambio has n't shown up in all this time .
And all my children ?
I wrote a verse to this tune , though it 's not very imaginative . I 'll give it you .
Oh , stop it . --Do you , Orlando , take Rosalind to be your lawfully wedded wife ?
Heaven knows I am .
My loyal , hard-working friend Sir Walter Blunt has arrived here at court , fresh off his horse and covered with the mud of every town from Holmedon to here . He 's brought us very welcome news . The Earl of Douglas has been defeated . Blunt saw ten thousand Scotsmen and twenty-two knights piled up in their own blood on the fields of Holmedon . Hotspur took these men prisoner : Douglas ' son Mordake , the Earl of Fife ; as well as the Earls of Athol , Murray , Angus , and Menteith . That 's a valuable group ! A fantastic catch , is n't it , kinsman ?
He does n't have any daughters , sir .
I 'm helping you because I like and respect you .
What 's going on , Rosalind ? Cupid have mercy ! You wo n't utter a single word ?
That 's a good thing to put in -- it keeps you from getting in trouble with the law .
Here 's a riddle , uncle . Is the lunatic a gentleman or an ordinary guy ?
Yes we do , grandmother , because my good uncle Richard told me . He said the king was forced by the queen to make up charges against my father that would send him to prison . When my uncle explained this to me , he wept and hugged and kissed me . He told me I could rely on him as if he were my father , and he said he would love me as if I were his child .
Yes , it 's pointless .
People and senators , do n't be afraid . Do n't run away -- stay where you are . Only Caesar had to die for his ambition .
I 'll fight until they hack the flesh off my bones . Give me my armor .
You 're too dense to shine .
I meant what I said . May God keep you .
Here come Lord Buckingham and Lord Derby .
It was armed , you say ?
Quiet ! Count how many times the clock chimes .
Well then , I 'll do it . What kind of beard should I wear for the part ?
Sweet as honey from Hybla , you dirty old man . And is n't a sheriff 's uniform a pretty durable outfit ?
You there , sir , come here please . Who am I , sir ?
Excuse me ?
Welcome , my lord . I 'm twiddling my thumbs waiting for the duke to show up . I do n't think he wants to be disturbed .
Yes , my lord . They 're ready whenever you are .
What do you think , Kate , shall we hang back and see how this conflict finishes ?
So what did the citizens say ?
Lucius , who 's that knocking ?
Do n't disturb his soul . Let it go up to heaven . His soul would be angry at anyone who tried to keep him in the torture chamber of this life any longer .
It seems wrong , after all your hard work in battle , that you should be spending your time now in idle chatter . How many other princes would behave like this if their fathers were as sick as yours ?
Yes , from him . Thus he greets your Majesty . He commands you , in the name of God : give up . Relinquish the stolen titles that , by the gift of heaven and the laws
The curse my noble warrior - father laid on you when you set a paper crown on his head just before slaying him has finally borne fruit . Your scorn for him was so shocking that he cried rivers . To stop up his tears , you handed him a rag soaked with the blood of his own child . God , not us , is responsible for punishing you for your bloody deed .
Say what he wants or we 'll never go .
Oh , was she now ? I 'll have to tell the story again every month , since you seem to forget it . This damned witch Sycorax was kicked out of Algiers for various witching crimes too terrible for humans to hear about . But for one reason they refused to execute her . Is n't that true ?
Go , take it away and let your master make whatever use of it he can .
Yes , yes , he told me his plans on my ears . Damn his hands --I could barely understand it .
It 's a messenger from the warships .
You 've made him so delusional he 'll go crazy when he learns the truth .
But I do n't have any good sides . I do n't have a trace of the qualities a king needs , such as justice , truth , moderation , stability , generosity , perseverance , mercy , humility , devotion , patience , courage , and bravery . Instead , I overflow with every variation of all the different vices . No , if I had power I would take world peace and throw it down to hell .
Are you Sebastian ?
According to my reckoning , we 'll get to Mt . Misena before you , Lepidus .
The King 's assembled his parliament , sir .
Yes , and it seemed twice as long to me , having been kept from your bed that whole time .
What 's going on , Malvolio ?
Shush , please . Come , sir , no more . --Oswald , come here ! And you , sir , you 're more of a rascal than a fool . Go follow your master .
That 's true . And what did Surrey say to that ?
One of them is well known , my gracious lord . A huge , fat man .
Whatever . Stand over there .
Unless I 've mistaken his battle flags , which I 'm sure I have n't , his regiment lies at least half a mile south of the king 's mighty army .
So let 's see it .
If love is blind , it ca n't hit the target . Now he 'll sit under a medlar tree and wish his mistress were one of those fruits that look like female genitalia . Oh Romeo , I wish she were an open - arse , and you a Popperin pear to " pop her in . " Good night , Romeo . I 'll go to my little trundle bed . This open field is too cold a place for me to sleep . Come on , should we go ?
Yes .
Indeed , my child , at Saint Peter 's Church early Thursday morning , the gallant , young , and noble gentleman Count Paris will happily make you a joyful bride .
Now go ahead and tell me the rest of your story . --Please go stand farther away .
Be quiet !
Oh , I 'd never be that cruel . I 'll definitely do as you say and leave my beauty for the rest of the world to enjoy . I 'll write out a detailed inventory of my beauty and label every part . For example -- item : two lips , ordinary red . Item : two gray eyes , with lids on them . Item : one neck , one chin , and so on . Anyway , were you sent here just to tell me I 'm beautiful ?
Was n't it just yesterday that we spoke to each other ?
No , some of it is about my child 's father . Oh , this working - day world is full of thorns !
With this shepherdess , my sister , on the outskirts of the forest . We live like fringe on the edges of a petticoat .
Whoever shuns ambition And loves to live in the sun , Hunting the food he eats Pleased with what he finds , Come here , come here , come here . Here he will findNo enemy But winter and rough weather .
Drop dead , you filthy eel . Drop dead !
Nothing that you want to hear , my lord , but nothing so bad that I ca n't mention it .
You could have at least rhymed .
" Shorter ! " See , she 's doing it again !
Excuse me , young man , how do I get to the Jew 's residence ?
Yes , your Majesty . The duke of Exeter has held the bridge very gallantly . The French have retreated , see , and there were great acts of courage . Indeed , the enemy nearly took the bridge , but he was forced to retreat , and the duke of Exeter holds the bridge . I can tell your Majesty , the duke is a brave man .
Be a careful mother , madam , and think about your son , the young prince . Send for him right away and have him crowned . Your peace of mind depends on him . Bury your sorrows in dead Edward 's grave and plant your hopes in Prince Edward 's rise to the throne .
How 's the queen ?
Why , the man who shortens his life by twenty years cuts off twenty years of worrying about death .
Did I say later ? I said now ! --Smile , Kate ! Be happy . --Get my boots off , you apes ! You idiots , now !
Now he 's saying how she took him into our bedroom . Oh , I can see your nose now . But I ca n't see the dog I 'm going to throw it to .
Ah , it 's a sensitive animal , with a good conscience .
Dear general , I never gave you any reason to hate me .
I 'll get right on that .
No way , by God ; just hold on a minute . I know a few tricks like that myself , I swear .
He 's been seen there many mornings , crying tears that add drops to the morning dew and making a cloudy day cloudier with his sighs . But as soon as the sun rises in the east , my sad son comes home to escape the light .
No , really , I wo n't take a penny .
Can you blame him ?
Is there anyone to give the bride away ?
If it looks like my good father , I 'll speak to it , even if Hell itself opens up and tells me to be quiet . I ask you , if you 've kept this a secret , keep doing so . Whatever happens tonight , do n't talk about it . I 'll return the favor . So good-bye for now . I 'll see you on the guards ' platform between eleven and twelve tonight .
Why , are we turning to men ?
You disgusting vulture , you 're a liar ! My knights are the finest men who can attend a king , and they meticulously uphold their reputation . Oh , how ugly did Cordelia 's small flaw appear ! And now Cordelia 's small flaw has bent me completely out of shape and sucked all the love out of my heart . Oh , Lear , Lear , Lear ! Let me beat this portal that let my good sense out and my foolishness in ! -- Go , go , people .
If we forgot him , our big celebration would n't be complete , and that would n't be any good .
I 'll follow you and turn this hell I 'm in into a kind of heaven . It would be heavenly to be killed by someone I love so much .
He and I will make up .
" Carriage " makes it sound like it 's pulling around a cannon . I prefer to call it a " hanger . " But anyway . Six Barbary horses , six French swords with accessories , and three imaginatively designed carriages -- sounds like a French bet against the Danish . Why has all this been put on the table ?
Not if the minor ones come up first .
Well then , I know who you are . What do you have to tell me ?
How are you feeling , Malvolio ?
Look who 's coming : a young man and an old man , having a serious talk .
And yet she cheapens herself by turning her gaze on me , who cut her sweet prince 's life short and made her a widow ? On me , though I am barely half the man that Edward was ? On me , though I am limping and deformed ? I bet I 've been wrong about myself all this time . Even though I do n't see it , this lady thinks I 'm a marvelously good-looking man . Time to buy myself a mirror and employ a few dozen tailors to dress me up in the current fashions . Since I 'm suddenly all the rage , it will be worth the cost . But first , I 'll dump this fellow in his grave , then return to my love weeping with grief . Come out , beautiful sun -- until I 've bought a mirror to admire my reflection in , I 'll watch my shadow as I stroll along .
Let 's see , " Who builds stronger things than a stonemason , a shipbuilder , or a carpenter ? "
Yes , sir , it 's all too true , God help us .
" The sixth of July . Sincerely , your loving friend , Benedick . "
I have to do it , I have to do it . I have to keep my reason in mind . I wo n't say out loud what my reason is , but I have to do it . But I wo n't shed any of her blood or scar that beautiful skin , whiter than snow and smooth as the finest marble . But she 's got to die , or she 'll cheat on other men . Put out the light of the candle , and then put out the light of her heart . If I extinguish the candle , I can light it again if I regret it . But once I kill you , you beautiful , fake woman , I do not know the magic that could bring you back . When I 've plucked this rose , I ca n't make it grow again ; it will have no choice but to wither and die . Let me smell you while you 're still on the tree . Oh , that sweet breath almost convinces me not to kill you and carry out justice . One more , one more kiss . If you 're this beautiful when you 're dead , I 'll kill you and then love you afterward . One more , and this is the last . Such a sweet kiss was never so deadly . I have to cry , but I have to be cruel too . I 'm acting like God in the Old Testament --I have to punish the one I love . She 's waking up .
Say anything . Call me an honorable murderer if you like . I did nothing out of hate , only out of honor .
God , I 'm crazy about her . She 's wise , if I 'm judging her right . She 's beautiful , if my eyes can see . And she 's loyal , as she has proven . And as long as she 's herself-- wise , beautiful , and faithful -- she 'll always have a place in my heart .
I 'd rather be a squawking bird than an animal like you .
Or thorn - bushes .
Well , now ! What 's the matter ?
Will it never be morning ?
As I was saying , fashion is a deformed villain . It makes hot-blooded young men spin around feverishly , forever changing their appearances , dictating that sometimes they dress like Pharoah 's soldiers in that grimy painting and sometimes like the priests of the god Baal , as seen in old church windows . And sometimes fashion dresses them like the great Hercules in that dirty , worm-eaten tapestry -- the one where his codpiece seems almost as big as his club .
I would have sworn that , too , my lord , especially against Benedick .
You mean an officer ?
With three or four knuckleheads and a few dozen kegs of liquor . I 've been with the lowest of the low . Sirrah , I 've made great friends with these three bartenders , and I 'm on a first-name basis with them : Tom , Dick , and Francis . They swear on their souls that , even though I 'm only the Prince of Wales , I 'm the king of niceness . They say I 'm no pompous fool , like Falstaff , but a good sport , a spirited man , a good boy . When I 'm King of England , all the good men of Eastcheap will follow me gladly . When you drink deeply , they joke that you have been dyed red ; and if you stop for a breath when you 're drinking , they yell " Cough ! " and they command you to keep going . In fifteen minutes , I got so good at being a drinking companion , I could be at ease with any man over a drink , in any setting . Ned , you did n't do yourself any favors by missing this . But , sweet Ned , I 'll sweeten the name Ned with this bit of sugar , given to me by an apprentice drawer who never spoke any English his whole life , except , " That 'll be eight shillings and sixpence , " and " You 're welcome , " and also , " Just a second , just a second ! Bring a pint of drawer to the drawer room ! " But Ned , let 's pass the time until Falstaff gets here . Hide in a side room while I ask that little apprentice drawer why he gave me the sugar . Keep calling out his name , Francis , and do n't stop , so that all he 's able to say is , " Just a second ! " Step aside , and I 'll give you a taste .
It 's hard to see clearly in the dark of night , but it 's easier to hear well .
Poor Tom , who eats frogs , toads , tadpoles , lizards , and newts . When the devil tells me to , I eat cow dung for salads , I swallow old rats and dead dogs , I drink pond scum . In every village I 'm whipped and put in the stocks , punished and imprisoned . But I used to be a respectable servant , with three suits and six shirts . Once I had a horse to ride and a sword to wear , but now poor Tom 's been eating rats and mice for seven long years . Beware of the devil who follows me around . Calm down , Smulkin , you fiend !
You can do what you want , but he 's an experienced and honorable soldier .
Him ? He 's poor , he has nothing .
The king ? Who 's that ?
I curse her .
" Nothing to do " with Mrs. Shore ! I tell you , mister , there 's only one man who gets to do " nothing , " with her and not be punished for it . Everyone else had better keep their " nothings " to themselves .
Cold , Curtis . It 's a cold world , except for people who have to start fires . Therefore , do your duty and take your reward , because my master and mistress are nearly frozen to death .
I 've stayed up with you for two nights now , and I have n't seen any evidence of what you were talking about . When was the last time you saw her sleepwalking ?
Here comes his Majesty .
Welcome . Set the honorable old man down and let him eat .
I did .
Sir , I will not put up with this snub without a reply . You call my brave , honorable dealings insolent disrespect . Does a man have to stand here , silent and bowing , to be a virtuous man ? No , sir . With all due respect , I wo n't bow down to you . I say that I want to be set free by these officers , seeing as I have urgent work to do for the King .
The boy is warning me that someone approaches . Who could be walking around here tonight ? Who 's ruining my rituals of true love ? It 's someone with a torch ! I must hide in the darkness for awhile .
Well then , do n't bother with him and let him go . Then immediately call the rest of the watch together and thank God that you 've gotten rid of such a criminal .
His name is Tyrrel , my lord .
You did n't do anything else to earn this punishment ?
What if it tempts you to jump into the sea , sir ? Or to the terrifying cliff that overhangs the water ,
You wo n't be worse off because of me : here 's some money .
Ah yes , the two points where your suspenders are attached to your buttons . If one breaks , the other will hold , but if both points break , your pants will fall down .
Please , fool , go away . Here 's money for you . If you stay any longer , I 'll give you something worse .
Swallows have built nests in Cleopatra 's sails . The fortunetellers wo n't say whether that 's a good sign or a bad one , but they do n't look happy . Antony is valiant and dejected . His mood changes by fits and starts ; his checkered luck vacillates between hope and fear , winning and losing .
Come on , sir , perform your forward thrust , your passado .
Well ? What is the meaning of this , herald ? Do n't you know that I have offered these bones of mine for ransom ? Are you coming again for ransom ?
That 's it !
Now I 'll offend you whether I give it to you or not . The problem is in what the letter says , as far as I can tell .
Oh , grim-looking night ! Oh , night that is so black in color ! Oh night , which is always there when it is not day ! Oh night ! Oh night ! So sad , sad , sad ,
Here 's some more news coming in .
Knock , knock ! Who 's there , in the other devil 's name ? Maybe it 's some slick , two-faced con man who lied under oath . But he found out that you ca n't lie to God , and now he 's going to hell for perjury . Come on in , con man .
I have time for you now , my sad daughter . My lord , we must ask you to leave us alone .
Let me see them , please .
Oh , mighty Caesar ! Do you lie so low ? Have all your conquests , glories , triumphs , achievements , come to so little ? Farewell . Gentlemen , I do n't know what you intend to do , who else you intend to kill , who else you consider corrupt .
Am I really like one of those guys ?
Good morrow , neighbor , whither away so fast ?
Oh , if you only knew how close to success you are , even while you make fun of what I 'm telling you ! The more you joke about it , the more clearly I feel how serious it is ! Lazy people end up at the bottom , and you deserve to be at the top .
I wo n't bet on whether or not any of this is real .
Everything about this is unnatural ! What a stupid ambition , causing a son to kill the father who supports him . Then it looks like Macbeth will become king .
What ! " She 's busy and cannot come ! " Is that an answer ?
Look how he 's making fun of me ! Will you let him talk to me like , my lord ?
Meet with the ambassadors .
I 'm glad I do n't , for your sake . I have many awful qualities .
How did you survive ? How did you get here ? Tell me the truth , swear on this bottle of wine . I made it out of tree bark after I washed ashore . I myself floated here on a barrel of wine that the sailors tossed overboard .
Good heavens !
How do you do , sir . How can I help you ?
Wake up , wake up ! Ring the alarm bell . Murder and treason ! Banquo and Donalbain , Malcolm ! Wake up ! Shake off sleep , which looks like death , and look at death itself ! Get up , get up , and look at this image of doomsday ! Malcolm ! Banquo ! Get up from your beds as if you were rising out of your own graves , and walk like ghosts to come witness this horror . Ring the bell .
Run as if your life depended on it .
To think that fool had the nerve to try to teach me manners ! I 'll beat him until the welts look like basket - weave !
Then I 'll smack you on the head with the serving - creature 's knife . I wo n't mess around . I 'll make you sing . Do you hear me ?
It 's amazing to hear a devil speak the truth !
You 'll only make him worse with all your worry . For God 's sake , let people comfort you . Then you 'll be able to cheer him up .
Pull them apart .
Me too , I swear .
He used to praise his mother 's nipple before he sucked it . He 's like so many successful people in these trashy times -- he 's patched together enough fancy phrases and trendy opinions to carry him along . But blow a little on this bubbly talk , and it 'll burst . There 's no substance here .
That 's comforting . They can be killed , it 's true . So be cheerful . Before the bat flies through the castle , and before the dung beetle makes his little humming noise to tell us it 's nighttime , a dreadful deed will be done .
That 's true -- if the devil 's judging her .
Oh , when you get her angry , she 's a good fighter , and vicious too . She was a hellcat in school . And she 's fierce , even though she 's little .
Was it a man ?
Do n't worry , sweet Octavia , I 'll always write to you , and I 'll think about you all the time .
How did my master die , Strato ?
A very good color , this chestnut .
Go inside , Nerissa . Tell my servants not to mention that we were gone . You must not , either , Lorenzo -- or you , Jessica .
Welcome . Eat . I wo n't trouble you yet with questions about your situation . --Some music , please , and , good friend , sing .
I wish I were as big and strong as you . Then you 'd see the courage that lives in the Queen of Egypt .
I 'll do whatever the king wants . If he 's ready now , so am I. Otherwise , I 'll do it anytime , as long as I 'm able .
Yes . But that war ended as soon as circumstances made it advisable for them to join together against Caesar . But in their very first battle , Caesar won and drove them out of Italy .
No , do n't . This fit has to run its course . If you interrupt it , he 'll foam at the mouth and go crazy . Look , he 's moving . Why do n't you go away for a bit ? He 'll get
Why not ?
What , do you want to wear my weapon , little lord ?
Be patient , madam . I 'm sure his majesty will recover his health soon .
Most sweet Queen --
Pay the musicians , Sirrah . Goodbye , waitress . Goodbye , Doll . See , wenches , how wanted we valuable men are ? The good-for-nothing may sleep when the man of action is needed . Farewell , good wenches . If I 'm not sent away immediately , I 'll come see you again before I go .
Let Rome fall ! May the tongues of our critics rot ! I have responsibilities in this war , and as the absolute ruler of my kingdom I will carry out my duties as if I were a man . Do n't argue against it . I wo n't stay behind .
Are you going ? It 's still a long time until daybreak . Do n't be afraid . That sound you heard was the nightingale , not the lark . Every night the nightingale chirps on that pomegranate - tree . Believe me , my love , it was the nightingale .
She has tricked me into seeing my own faults . Gentlemen , go in there and grab him .
And you told me to bury my love .
Lord , how you 've changed ! How are you and your master getting along ? I 've brought him a present . How are you ?
Something there is n't a word for .
No , let me say some good things about you while I 'm in the mood .
Well , niece , I trust that you will defer to your father on these important decisions .
Oh , Caesar --
Marcus Octavius , Marcus Justeius , Publicola , and Caelius will go by sea , but we 'll keep the bulk on land . Caesar 's speed defies belief .
Oh cousin , cousin , cousin , my sweet little cousin , I wish you knew how deep in love I am . The bottom of my love is so deep it ca n't be reached . It 's as deep as the bay of Portugal .
Mark Antony --
How tall is she ?
Now , Eros .
Oh Lord , they 're fighting ! I 'll go call the watch .
Next time I 'll give you nothing for something . Is it lunchtime ?
If I told you I understood Greek , I 'd be lying . But those who understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads . As for myself , it was Greek to me . I have more news too . Murellus and Flavius have been punished for pulling scarves off statues of Caesar . There you go . There was even more foolishness , if I could only remember it .
No , longer than that .
Your Highness , you see before you the Duke of Milan , Prospero , who 's been wronged . I 'll embrace you now so you will know it 's really me , a living prince , talking to you . I heartily welcome you and your entourage here .
Well , if you ignore the fact that you 're a woman , then I suppose that would make you an animal .
I 'll tell you at a better time . This man looks like his business is urgent . Let 's hear what he has to say . Who are you ?
Bring down that top sail ! Fast ! Lower , lower ! Let the ship sail close to the wind .
No , do n't ever tell him , my lord . Let her get over it , with the help of good advice .
Very pleased to meet you , my lord .
It is . What does this mean ?
She cursed Richard then . She cursed Buckingham then . She cursed Hastings then . Oh God , remember to hear her prayer for them , just as for us ! But do n't kill my sister and her royal sons , be satisfied , dear God , with our blood , which is being spilled unjustly , as you know .
I do n't think any man 's ever been beaten for a " why " and " wherefore " that made so little sense . Well , thank you .
If it 's fighting he is after , some of us here should run and hide .
No.
Yes , sir . I 've only made it this far since I left her place , walking at a moderate pace .
Ah , you sorceress ! Be gone !
Not so fast . He has distinguished himself as a great soldier in his own right , deserving more than any honor your can bestow on him .
Where did we leave off ?
That was when I was young and inexperienced and did n't know what passion was . But come . Go get me ink and paper . He shall have different messages every day if I have to depopulate Egypt to send them .
Brother of England , may this meeting prove as fruitful as it is joyous . We are glad to look upon your face -- a face whose eyes have until now carried in them a glance as deadly , for any Frenchman they alighted on , as the poisonous eyes of those mythical lizards , the basilisks . We hope your poison has worn off and this day shall transform all grievances and quarrels into friendship .
I wish you were what I wanted you to be !
Yes , madam , that 's the one . He deserves a beautiful wife more than all the other men I 've ever seen .
This is Lord Kent . Remember him as my friend and an honorable man .
It 's my birthday . I had planned to celebrate it quietly , but since my lord is once more himself , I will be Cleopatra again .
Cassius , do n't take it badly . If I seem guarded , it 's only because I 'm uneasy with myself . Lately I 've been overwhelmed with private thoughts and inner conflicts , which have affected my behavior . But this should n't trouble my good friends -- and I consider you a good friend , Cassius . Do n't think anything more about my distraction than that poor Brutus , who is at war with himself , forgets to show affection to others .
Did she give up all those chances to marry noblemen , give up her father and country and friends , just to be called a whore ? Does n't that make you want to cry ?
Yes , but yesterday I could have sworn your mistress gave you a bumpy ride .
If it is , I suggest you do n't eat it .
No , noble Romeo , you 've got to dance .
Indeed , and my whole heart is glad for that . I 'd rather be a kitten and say " meow " than be a courtly balladeer .
Where is your husband ?
Easily , madam .
These vows are just traps for stupid birds . I know when a man is on fire , he 'll swear anything . But when a heart 's on fire , it gives out more light than heat , and the fire will be out even before he 's done making his promises . Do n't mistake that for true love . From now on , spend a little less time with him and talk to him less . Make yourself a precious commodity . Remember that Hamlet is young and has a lot more freedom to fool around than you do . In short , Ophelia , do n't believe his love vows , since they 're like flashy pimps who wear nice clothes to lead a woman into filthy acts . To put it plainly , do n't waste your time with Hamlet . Do as I say . Now come along .
I hope she never does ! And I hope you keep on thinking she would n't .
Talk about Mortimer ? God damn , I will talk about him . And damn my soul if I do n't join him ! I 'll empty out my veins for him , and I 'll pour my precious blood onto the ground , drop by drop ! And I 'll lift this put-upon Mortimer as high up as this ungrateful King , this ungenerous , rotten Bolingbroke !
Good - bye . Who 's taken over the watch for you ?
We wo n't hold back any of our wisdom . We 'll drive them to a noncome . Go get the educated writer to record our excommunication , and I 'll meet you at the jail .
Finally , after shaking my arm a little , and jerking his head up and down three times , he sighed like it was his last breath . After that he let me go . He left the room with his head turned back on me , finding his way out without looking , since his eyes were on me the whole time .
With a touch of green in it .
Forgotten you ! No , sir . I could not forget you , since I never saw you before in my life .
If I could colonize this island , my lord --
I 'll go , sir , and I wo n't bother you .
Go to Francis Seacole , the constable of the watch . Tell him to bring his pen and his inkwell to the jail . We will now go to examination these men .
But did you listen to all that poetry without even wondering about what your name is doing on all these trees ?
I did n't tell you to get rid of one love and replace her with another .
Sit down for a while , and we 'll tell you again the story you do n't want to believe , about what we 've seen two nights now .
" I may command the one I love . " Well , she commands me . I 'm her servant . She 's my boss . Why , anyone can see what this means . There 's no ambiguity here . But the end , what do those letters mean ? If only I could somehow relate them to me ! Hmm . M.O.A.I. --
Well said , Hal ! Go for it , Hal ! This is n't child 's play , I 'll tell you that much !
Well , no , not literally .
So he regrets that any dishonorable acts were forced on you , not being performed of your own free will .
Bassanio gave his ring to the judge who asked for it , and deserved it too . And then his clerk , who went to a lot of trouble with the writing , begged for mine . Neither of them would take anything but the two rings .
Do so . And let no one suffer for this deed except us , the perpetrators .
He ran out that way , sir , when he could n't --
Knock , knock ! Never a moment of peace ! Who are you ? Ah , this place is too cold to be hell . I wo n't pretend to be the devil 's porter anymore . I was going to let someone from every profession into hell .
Perhaps we will .
Come here , captain . Listen . Take this note . Follow those two to prison and follow these instructions . I 've already promoted you once . If you do as you 're told , you 'll be richly rewarded . Just remember this : you have to go with the times , and these are the times for being tough . A soldier ca n't afford to be a ninny . There 'll be no quibbling about this assignment . Either you accept it , or go find some other way to support yourself .
Let 's discuss it some more .
I think he 'll carry this island home in his pocket and give it to his son like an apple .
Caesar 's sister is named Octavia .
" By this sword " is an oath , and oaths must be kept .
Well , that 's what he 's doing -- making you free to enjoy heaven .
We thank your Honor .
Caesar was a tyrant .
You wo n't stay any longer ? And you do n't want me to come with you ?
Antony has come onto the battlefield .
" De chin . "
Men 's faces are truthful , whatever their hands do .
Hang it !
Cheer up , Antonio ! Keep up your courage , man ! I 'll give the Jew my flesh , blood , bones , and everything before you lose one drop of blood for me .
Yes , please ; unleash your wisdom .
Do I treat you this roundly ? You 're kicking me around like I 'm a football . You kick me out , he kicks me back . If I keep working for you , I 'm going to end up wrapped in leather , like a football .
He 'll make your palace tremble for this insult , even if it were the mightiest in all of Europe . And , make no mistake , you 'll find , as we his subjects have , an amazing difference between the king as a young man and the way he is now . Now he uses his time wisely , as you will see by your own casualties , if he remains in France .
Is there any way I could show such friendship to you ?
Well , that 's the same thing .
I wo n't hurt him . My hands are tainted if they hit an inferior , especially since I myself am the cause of my own distress .
Tell her how passionately I love her . Overwhelm her with examples of how faithful I am . The best thing would be to act out my feelings for her . She 'll pay more attention to a young guy like you than to an older , more serious man .
By all means . I remember this fellow -- he once played the eldest son of a farmer . It was the play in which you wooed the gentlewoman so successfully . I have forgotten your name , but you were well cast in the role and played it convincingly .
It was a lovely wedding , and we 're doing really well on our trip home .
Why , good sir ?
Tybalt started the fight before he was killed by Romeo . Romeo spoke to Tybalt politely and told him how silly this argument was . He mentioned that you would not approve of the fight . He said all of this gently and calmly , kneeling down out of respect . But he could not make peace with Tybalt , who was in an angry mood and would n't listen to talk about peace . Tybalt and Mercutio began to fight each other fiercely , lunging at one another and dodging each other 's blows . Romeo cried out , " Stop , my friends . Break it up . " Then he jumped in between them and forced them to put their swords down . But Tybalt reached under Romeo 's arm and thrust his sword into brave Mercutio . Then Tybalt fled the scene .
Are you ready , sir ?
Oh , dear God , do n't let me go mad ! Keep me balanced and sane . I do n't want to go mad .
Peace . I 'm done talking . May God choose you to receive his grace . You were the prettiest baby I ever nursed . If I live to see you get married someday , all my wishes will come true .
It 's not quite that simple . I was n't expecting you , and I 'm not ready to receive you . Please hear what Goneril is saying . We 're trying to be reasonable while you 're so upset , and we understand that you 're old , and ... But Goneril knows what she 's doing .
I 'm sick , Charmian .
I admit that he 's murderous , lecherous , greedy , lying , deceitful , violent , malicious , and guilty of every sin that has a name . But there is no end , absolutely none , to my sexual desires . Your wives , your daughters , your old women , and your young maids together could not satisfy my lust . My desire would overpower all restraints and anyone who stood in my way . It would be better for Macbeth to rule than someone like me .
Have you sent anyone to Bottom 's house ? Has he come home yet ?
Where 's Belgium and the Netherlands ?
That we are now only " like " friends --Oh Caesar -- makes my heart ache .
There 'll be hell to pay for this .
Do you know the difference , my boy , between a bitter fool and a sweet one ?
I hope we stay in love for thirty more years ! But I 'm sad . You 've been so gloomy lately , so unlike your usual cheerful self , that I worry something is wrong . But do n't let this upset you , since women are too afraid in love -- for them , love and fear go hand in hand . You know very well how much I love you , and my fear is just as deep . When someone 's love is great , the little worries become very big . So when you see someone who worries a lot about little things , you know they 're really in love .
Oh dear , oh dear . This is very bad , very bad . I have promissory notes from Florence that I have to deliver .
Lay off , already ! Ca n't you see I 'm eating ?
What 's this ? Two of my brother 's men , all tied up ! And Borachio is one of them !
break out , civil war erupts , kings are betrayed , and the bond between father and son snaps . This wicked son of mine confirms the prediction -- son against father . The king acts unnaturally -- father against child . We 've seen the best our age has to offer . Conspiracies , fakery , betrayal , and disorder are all that 's left until we die . Find out what this villainous Edgar is thinking , Edmund . You wo n't lose any respect . Just do it carefully . --And to think that the noble and loyal Kent has been banished , for the crime of telling the truth ! It 's strange , strange .
He had Percy cornered , and he carried himself more bravely than I would have expected of such a young warrior .
Decius , go tell them that Caesar wo n't come .
Sir , I was born around three o'clock in the afternoon , with a white head and a bit of a round belly . As for my scratchy voice , I lost it through shouting and singing loud songs . But I wo n't try to prove how young I am any longer . I have only one trait of old age , and that is wisdom . If somebody wants to challenge me to a dance contest for a thousand - mark wager , let him hand me the money and off we go . Now , as for the fact that the Prince hit you on the head , he did it like a rude prince and you took it like a sensible gentleman . I reprimanded him for it , and he repents . He 's not wearing the traditional sackcloth and ashes , for sure , but he 's repenting in silk cloth and wine .
I have to be honest with you . You were wrong to give away your wife 's first gift so thoughtlessly , a thing you swore to keep on your finger and bound faithfully to your body .
Oh , please do n't swear , my lord of Buckingham .
Oh , I do n't think so . It 's the dark of night that makes you hard to see , not a secret potion .
Why do you sound so odd ? Are you ill ? You sound out of tune .
Yes , my good lord . It 's time we hit the road .
God wanted to punish me with this murder , and this man with me , so I 'm both Heaven 's executioner and its minister of justice . This is bad , but it 'll get worse soon . Oh , and one other thing , madam .
Here .
Sure , but these feet were lame , and could n't have stood up without the support of the verses . They stood lamely in the verse .
Do n't worry , I will set things in motion . And everything will be alright , I promise you , wife . You should go to Juliet and dress her up . I 'm not going to bed tonight . Leave me alone . I 'll pretend to be the housewife for once .
I 'm waiting here for the general , and I do n't want him to see me with a woman .
What is it ? What 's the news ?
I hope you wo n't hate me forever after I say these things , because I will soon fill your ears with the most dreadful news you have ever heard .
The things that cause my sadness are without limit . Therefore my sadness is without limit .
No , madam . But I swear I 'm not the person I 'm playing . Are you the lady of the house ?
She 's insistent . In fact , she 's crazed . You ca n't help feeling sorry for her .
The king was happy to hear of your success , Macbeth . Whenever he hears the story of your exploits in the fight against the rebels , he becomes so amazed it makes him speechless . He was also shocked to learn that on the same day you fought the rebels you also fought against the army of Norway , and that you were n't the least bit afraid of death , even as you killed everyone around you . Messenger after messenger delivered news of your bravery to the king with praise for how you defended his country .
Soundly , my lord .
What looks like a horse is quick as thought disfigured by the wind , made as difficult to distinguish as water poured into water .
Put a mark next to his name too , Antony .
Well , do n't face off with me . You have bested many things , well do n't try and best me . I will not be faced or bested . I tell you I requested that your master cut out the gown , but I did n't ask him to cut it all to pieces . Therefore , it follows you 're a liar .
Have n't I resisted even Brutus , begging from his knees ?
Look at the three little dogs , Tray , Blanch , and Sweetheart -- all barking at me .
Sure , and twenty others just like you .
In that case , I think Cassio 's an honest man .
Talking with a man outside her bedroom window ! A likely story !
That part is up to you . Go to the Prince , your brother , and tell him that he has done a terrible thing by matching the renowned Claudio -- whom you greatly admire -- with such a tainted whore as Hero .
The moon is bright ; you can leave during the night . I 'll tell the man writing up our documents to hurry , and I 'll tell your wives you 're leaving . I 'm afraid my daughter will go mad because she loves Mortimer so much .
With this I avoid the grief of Antony 's death .
Certainly not ! Take off my mistress ' gown for your master 's use !
I think he 's gone hunting at Windsor .
Katherine , I 'd like you to lecture these headstrong women on the nature of the loyalty they owe their lords and husbands .
Do you hear us , sir ?
Peter Quince - -
The queen wants you to chat with Laertes -- politely-- before you begin your match .
It was done excellently , if it 's all - natural , the way God made it .
My friends , are you all Lady Olivia 's servants ?
Good lady , do n't be angry with the child .
and , speak of the devil , here he comes , right on cue . I 've got to play the role and sigh like a poor beggar . --Oh , these eclipses predict such disorder . Fa , sol , la , mi .
Go ahead , Moon .
Do n't push him too far . I wish you 'd be patient . We come to hate that which controls us .
The tears have n't done much because my face looked bad enough before I started to cry .
Yes , on land you do outnumber me . Even more since you annexed my father 's house and lands . But since , like the cuckoo , you do n't build anything for yourself , live in those lands as long as you can .
Absolutely .
That 's better than exaggerating our trust . It 's always better to get rid of what you 're scared of than to be afraid . I know how his mind works . I 've written to my sister telling her everything he 's said . If she welcomes him and his hundred knights after I 've shown how inappropriately he 's behaved --
You were right the first time . My piercing distress has stripped me of smooth manners . But I was n't raised in the forest , and I was somewhat well - bred . But stop , I say . Whoever eats this fruit before I 've been taken care of dies .
Oh , yes , we could , sir . He had his helmet visor up .
He 'll come right away . Make sure you lay into him . Tell him his pranks have caused too much trouble , and that Your Highness has taken a lot of heat for them . I 'll be right here , silent . Please be blunt with him .
Carry him away . What is your name , young man ?
We have no news except that the overconfident Macbeth is still in Dunsinane and will allow us to lay siege to the castle .
I 'm going now , sir , but soon I 'll be with you again , To help you resist the devil , Like the sidekick in the old plays Who shakes a wooden dagger , Fumes in rage and wrath , And shouts " Whoa ! " to the devil . He yells , " Trim your nails , old man . And goodbye , Satan , you peasant . "
Would you mind if we woke up the king ? He 's slept a long time .
Woman , stop your frantic curses and false prophesies before we run out of patience and do something bad to you .
I bet it 's a challenge .
One face , one voice , one way of dressing , but two people ! It 's like an optical illusion . It is and is n't the same person !
We have always known you to be a holy man . Where 's Romeo 's man ? What does he have to say about this ?
Good one , Davy . Get on with your work , Davy .
Back off if he seems really furious .
And like I am for no woman .
I 'll ask him for my position back again , and he 'll tell me I 'm a drunk . Even if I had a whole bunch of mouths , I would n't be able to answer that . I was a reasonable man , then I became a fool , and finally a beast ! Oh , how strange ! Every glass of liquor is damned , and the devil 's the main ingredient !
To answer your question , ma'am -- yes , he was friendly with those knights .
What 's going on , Dromio ? Where are you running so fast ?
What is love ? It is n't in the future . When you 're having fun now , you 're laughing right now . The future 's unsure , and there 's no reason to waste time . Come kiss me while you 're twenty . You wo n't be young forever .
To find a husband for her sister .
What wind blew you here , Pistol ?
I have . They 're on the march .
There he is , standing and glaring at me ! --Hey , lady , ca n't you see how the judge is ? Come over the stream to me , dear Bessy --
A clever person would say their butting heads had horns on them .
What other rites are you going to give her ?
No pleasure for the queen , indeed : I am the real queen , and the experience is completely joyless . I can no longer hold my tongue .
No kidding . Great .
Do you know why the King of France suddenly went back home ?
Not at all , my liege . I prefer these quarters , since they allow me to say , " Now I live like a king . "
Why are you crying ?
I 'd rather kill myself .
Well put , Maecenas .
You 'll have wine enough , my lord , soon .
Well , we 'll get to the bottom of it . Welcome , my good friends . Tell me , Voltemand , what 's the news from the king of Norway ?
Yes , boy .
Come shake hands with Laertes , Hamlet .
I 'm not kidding when I say this , I 'm not joking around like usual . You should be serious too when you listen to what I 'm saying . You can become a great man if you listen to me .
I may . I will if she likes the idea . She will be pleased . Then why am I worried ? Oh well , whatever . I 'll ask her straight out . It will be hard if " Cambio " loses her .
Twenty crowns .
I do n't want to be your executioner : I 'm trying to avoid you so that I wo n't hurt you . You tell me my eyes are murderous -- that 's a very pretty sentiment , and oh - so - probable , that my frail , soft eyes are tyrants , butchers , and murderers . I 'm frowning at you with all my might right now . If my eyes can injure , let them kill you now . Go ahead . Faint , fall down -- if you do n't , then you 're lying about my eyes being murderers . Come on , show me the wound that my eyes have caused . If you get scratched with a pin , it leaves a scar ; even if you lean on a rush , it leaves an impression on your palm . But my eyes , which I 've darted at you , have n't even left a mark . Now I am sure that eyes ca n't hurt a person .
This place is full of trouble , torments , and amazements . Please come , heavenly powers , and guide us out of this godforsaken country !
Come , let 's join our hands until the overpowering wine makes us soft and forgetful .
Wash your hands . Put on your nightgown . Do n't look so frightened . I tell you again , Banquo is buried . He cannot come out of his grave .
That 's not good . An Egyptian woman gave that handkerchief to my mother . She was a witch , and she could
And the one who commands us is our king .
Oh , Sir Toby , stop ! The police are here .
Do n't insult a deep love that you do n't understand , or you 'll pay the price . Look , here comes the woman you love .
Yes , fashion is fashion .
And like mine , but I 'm getting a little tired of it .
Not me , believe me . You 're wearing dancing shoes with nimble soles . My soul is made out of lead , and it 's so heavy it keeps me stuck on the ground so I ca n't move .
Noble Ventidius , while your sword is still warm with the blood of slain Parthians , why not finish the job ? The Parthians retreat . Go after them . Chase them down if you have to track them through Media , MesopotamiaMedia and Mesopotamia were countries bordering ParthiaMedia , Mesopotamia , or any other places they may go to hide . Then our great general , Antony , will commend you .
To my dear beloved who does n't know I love him , I send you this letter with all my heart " --That 's exactly how she talks ! Excuse me , sealing wax . Wait ! This is the stamp my lady seals her letters with -- it has a picture of Lucrece on it . This letter is from Olivia . Who is this written to ?
And I am your Rosalind .
If there were two men like you , pretty soon there 'd be none because the two of you would kill each other . You would fight with a man if he had one more whisker or one less whisker in his beard than you have in your beard . You 'll fight with a man who 's cracking nuts just because you have hazelnut - colored eyes . Only you would look for a fight like that . Your head is as full of fights as an egg is full of yolk , but your head has been beaten like scrambled eggs from so much fighting . You started a fight with a man who coughed in the street because he woke up a dog that was sleeping in the sun . Did n't you argue it out with your tailor for wearing one of his new suits before the right season ? And with another for tying the new shoes he made with old laces ? And yet you 're the one who wants to teach me about restraint !
Should I strike it with my spear ?
God save the king !
But not the woman who scolds , anyway , I hope .
Only too well .
You take an important part of myself with you . Treat it well .... Sister , be the kind of wife I hope you will be , and that this great contract rests upon your being ... Gracious Antony , do n't let my sister , this epitome of virtue that connects us , become the reason we separate . If you and I do n't value her equally , it would be better for us to work out our differences without her .
I did . I talked about how he was engaged to Lady Lucy , and how he was engaged to Lady Lucy through the help of the earl of Warwick . I spoke of the unquenchable greediness of Edward 's desires and the way he forced himself on the wives of Londoners . I mentioned the way he punished people harshly for minor offenses . I said he was not the son of the noble duke of York , because your father was in France when he was conceived , which explains why he does n't have anything in common with his father . And then I suggested that you were the spitting image of your father , both in the way you look and in the nobleness of your character . I went into all your victories in Scotland , your skill as a warrior , your wisdom in peacetime , your generosity , your goodness , and your exceptional modesty . Indeed , I left nothing out . And when my oration came to a close , I asked those who loved their country to cry , " God save Richard , England 's royal king ! "
Welcome yourself ! --What 's up with you?- -Hey to you ! --So much for greetings . Now , my well-dressed friends , is everything ready and in order ?
If you do n't mind my saying so , I hear the King is back from Wales and it did n't go so well .
Fulvia is dead .
Who told you how to get here below my bedroom ?
We spend more time seeking out the fleeting glories of this temporary world than looking to the permanent grace of God ! Anyone who builds his hopes on air lives like a drunken sailor hanging on a mast , ready with every dizzy nod of his head to tumble to the bottom of the sea . The things we worry about , like good looks and possessions , are n't lasting , and they do n't matter .
I ca n't believe that . Wait ! What 's that noise ?
Here comes your father . Do n't even think about refusing . I must and will have Katherine for my wife .
Let 's get away , Tybalt .
And what did he say ?
You 'll find us both at Crosby Place .
What do you have to say to me now ? Speak once again .
It 's my fate calling me . Every nerve in my body is now as tough as steel . The ghost is still waving me over . Let me go , gentlemen . I swear , if anyone holds me back , I 'll make a ghost of him ! I say , get away ! --Go ahead , I 'll follow you .
To prison , until you 're called into court .
You 're getting too angry .
Antony 's dead ! If you say that , you bastard , you 'll kill your Queen . If you say he 's healthy and free , I 'll give you money and you may kiss my hand . Kings have trembled to kiss this hand .
My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua .
Be careful , good Boatswain ! Where 's the Master ? Make these men work .
I do n't think so .
He just said that they 're no good at acting .
If you ever had a mother , come in quickly to Sir John . The poor thing , he is so shaken with a fever that it 's terrible to see . Sweet men , come to him .
I think your mind has been altered , and mine too .
We ca n't do that .
He wants us to lay siege . Wherever his soldiers have an opportunity to leave him , they do , whatever rank they are . No one fights with him except men who are forced to , and their hearts are n't in it .
Do n't take too long , unless you want our king to come after me to ask what 's holding things up , because he 's already landed here .
Gentlemen , since I 'd like to make good on what I 've said --Bianca , go inside . And do n't be unhappy , my dear . Whatever happens , you know I 'll never love you less .
She can stay at her father 's house .
Yes , I do .
It does n't matter what I 've heard or known . You must be the one who laughs when boys or women tell you their dreams . Is n't that your habit ?
This is a small house . There 's no room for the old man and his followers .
If you 're someone who gets into fights , I 'll fight with you .
Oh , what a heartbreaking sight !
There was a kind of war in my brain that would n't let me sleep . It was worse than being a captive in chains . Sometimes it 's good to be rash -- sometimes it works out well to act impulsively when our careful plans lose steam . This should show us that there 's a God in heaven who 's always guiding us in the right direction , however often we screw up --
Some people will laugh at anything , and others are so grouchy they wo n't even crack a smile when they hear something hysterically funny .
I have lethal poisons like that . But it 's against the law to sell them in Mantua , and the penalty is death .
I 'm sorry you 're leaving my father like this . It 's hell in our house , and you helped cheer it up , like a funny devil . But goodbye . Here 's a ducat for you . You 'll soon be meeting Lorenzo at supper ; he 'll be a guest of your new master . Give him this letter . Do it secretly . Goodbye . I do n't want my father to see me talking to you .
Yes , what about it ?
And why do you blame me for loving you ?
They will , Nerissa , but we 'll be disguised as men . I 'll bet you anything that I 'll be handsomer than you when we 're both dressed up . I 'll wear my sword more gracefully , and speak like a teenage boy , and walk with a manly stride rather than my ladylike steps . I 'll talk about fights like a bragging youth , and I 'll tell cute lies about honorable ladies who fell in love with me and got sick and died when I rejected them . They just died , what could I do ! Then I 'll start feeling sorry for them , wishing I had n't killed them . I 'll tell twenty lies like that , so men will think I graduated from school at least a year ago . I know a thousand immature tricks like that , and I 'll use them all .
My lord , his throat is cut . I did that to him .
What do you think of his neighbor , the Scottish lord ?
What is this ? What is this fuzzy logic ? What is this ? I hear you say " proud " and " I thank you , " and then " no thank you " and " not proud , " you spoiled little girl . You 're not really giving me any thanks or showing me any pride . But get yourself ready for Thursday . You 're going to Saint Peter 's Church to marry Paris . And if you do n't go on your own , I 'll drag you there . You disgust me , you little bug ! You worthless girl ! You pale face !
My heart is thirsty for that noble promise . Fill my cup , Lucius , until the wine overflows it . I cannot drink too much of Brutus 's love .
Which he 'll shove down our throats the way pigeons feed their young .
So , perhaps , did yours .
No more than that , my lord .
Your majesty !
Yes , look , it 's true that children are punished for the sins of their fathers . That 's why I 'm worried about you . I 've always been straightforward with you , so now I 'm telling you what I think . Cheer up , because I think you 're going to hell . There 's only one hope for you , and even that 's a kind of illegitimate hope .
Let me shake your hand . Do you have anything else to tell me ?
It is , my lord .
Brutus , you give a nice speech along with your evil strokes . Think of the hole you made in Caesar 's heart when you cried , " Long live Caesar ! Hail Caesar ! "
I have to go to England , do n't you know that ?
Hello ! My lord , my lord !
The gods know --
If every time you wished for a child you could have had one , you would have a million children .
You tugged on my cloak . Do you want to speak with me ?
Which one of you killed the deer ?
Her chariot is a hazelnut shell . It was made by a carpenter squirrel or an old grubworm ; they 've made wagons for the fairies as long as anyone can remember . In this royal wagon , she rides every night through the brains of lovers and makes them dream about love . She rides over courtiers ' knees , and they dream about curtsying . She rides over lawyers ' fingers , and right away , they dream about their fees . She rides over ladies ' lips , and they immediately dream of kisses . Queen Mab often puts blisters on their lips because their breath smells like candy , which makes her mad . Sometimes she rides over a courtier 's lips , and he dreams of making money off of someone . Sometimes she tickles a priest 's nose with a tithe - pigs tail , and he dreams of a large donation . Sometimes she rides over a soldier 's neck , and he dreams of cutting the throats of foreign enemies , of breaking down walls , of ambushes , of Spanish swords , and of enormous cups of liquor . And then , drums beat in his ear and he wakes up . He 's frightened , so he says a couple of prayers and goes back to sleep . She is the same Mab who tangles the hair in horses ' manes at night and makes the tangles hard in the dirty hairs , which bring bad luck if they 're untangled . Mab is the old hag who gives false sex dreams to virgins and teaches them how to hold a lover and bear a child . She 's the one --
What a miserable and obstinate fellow this king of England is , to blunder with his fat - headed followers so far beyond his capacity .
It really makes you feel what a lover feels .
How can you test them like that ?
Goodbye , nymph . Before he leaves this part of the forest , you 'll change places : you 'll be the one running away , and he 'll be in love with you .
He walked up the hill . I 'll go find him .
Hide for a minute -- someone 's approaching fast .
And how did she react to all this ?
Is she dead ?
He 's walking over there , sir .
delusions continue . If this is a dream , let me keep on sleeping !
He constantly offends me . Every hour he comes out with some horrible new offense that puts us all on edge . I wo n't stand for it . His knights are getting out of control , and he himself reprimands us about every little detail . When he comes back from hunting , I 'm not going to speak to him . Tell him I 'm sick . And if you 're not as attentive in serving him as you used to be , that 'll be good . I 'll take responsibility for it .
Oh yes , three thousand ducats .
Give me my fan , Peter .
A ragtag king --
And her cook yelled , mocked , and teased me , right ?
Killing a king ?
Yes , monstrous , monstrous ! That 's how it will be for Rivers , Vaughan , and Grey . That 's how it will be for some other men , too , who think they 're as safe as you and I , who are well-loved by noble Richard and Buckingham .
What a lying , drunken monster . When his god falls asleep , the monster will snatch his wine bottle .
And now she 'll start moaning , of course --
Yes , I see them coming . Let 's stay and watch .
I 've already spoken to my staff about this . They 'll consider you and Jessica masters of this house in place of Lord Bassanio and myself . So goodbye until we meet again .
If I buy you this bottle , that makes me an angel .
Yes , yes , this is the rope ladder .
Right , and they wore proclamations around their necks , saying , " Be it known to all men by these presents -- "
My liege .
He received me with courtesy and sufficient respect , but not with affection , nor with as much open and friendly conversation as he once greeted me .
And servants of the Danish king .
Keep up with me , Then dub me a knight ! Samingo ! Right ?
Well , you know what ? I 'll stay home .
The devil will get what 's coming to him . Sir John 's a man of his word , and he never disagrees with a proverb . He will " give the devil his due . "
He did ; I heard the proclamation . That was when the wretched King Richard set out to invade Ireland . When that was interrupted , he returned to England , only to be deposed and then murdered .
It 's getting there . Clink your cups together in a toast ! Here 's to Caesar .
Oh , stay calm , lady !
Very good , sir .
Now it 's time to get this playboy brother of mine all worked up . I hope I 'll see the end of him soon --I do n't know why , but I hate nothing in the world as much as him , though he 's an upstanding guy . He 's never gone to school but he 's smart , with good values , and everyone is delighted by him and loves him , especially my subjects , who know him the best . They love him , and therefore they despise me . But not for long ; Charles will take care of everything . All I have to do is get Orlando to fight , which I 'll do now .
Nonsense !
Greetings , gentlemen . May I be so bold as to ask the fastest way to Signior Baptista Minola 's house ?
I profess that I 'm as good as I seem --I 'll faithfully serve a master who trusts me , love those who are honest , talk with those who are wise and do n't talk too much . I 'm God - fearing , I fight if I must , and I do n't eat fish .
I knew you 'd have to look something up in the dictionary before we were finished .
Why , madam , have I offered you my love only to be flouted in front of the king ? Who does n't know that the good duke is dead ?
Greetings to you , madam !
Not yet .
Dead , sir .
I have a present I 'd like to give you , sir . And I want to request that --
So she 's wide ?
I think that 's strange .
Sir John !
God protect the prince from all of you . You 're a group of damned bloodsuckers !
Whoa , whoa ! You 're so infatuated with him that you 're hallucinating .
may stop sleeping with us , and give it out to other women instead . Or they may get insanely jealous , and keep us from going anywhere . Or let 's say they hit us , or cut back on the money they give us out of spite . We have feelings . We may be able to forgive them , but we want to get back at them too . Husbands need to know that their wives are human beings too . They see , smell , and taste sweet and sour just like their husbands . Why do they replace us with other women ? Do they do it for fun ? I think they do . Is it out of lust ? I think so . Is it a weakness ? It is . And do n't we have passions , and a taste for fun , and weaknesses , just like men ? Then tell them to treat us well . Or let them figure out that the bad things we do are just what we learned from them .
It 's almost ten o'clock .
I have n't seen you since you sent me to the Centaur with the gold you gave me .
Get off me , you fool !
Come on , wake up , wake up , wake up ! The second cock crowed . The curfew - bell rang . It 's three o'clock . Go get the baked meats , good Angelica . Do n't worry about the cost .
Get them in here .
I suspect his friends will join us .
I do n't have to give you answers that you like .
I bet it was Lamond .
He looks skinny , like a dried herring without its eggs , and he has n't got his girl . O flesh , flesh , you 've turned pale and weak like a fish . Now he 's ready for Petrarch 's poetry . Compared to Romeo 's girl , Laura was a kitchen slave . Surely she has a better love to make rhymes for her . Dido was shabbily dressed . Cleopatra was a gypsy girl . Helen and Hero were sluts and harlots . Thisbe might have had a blue eye or two , but that does n't matter . Signor Romeo , bonjour . There 's a French greeting that matches your drooping French-style pants . You faked us out pretty good last night .
Oh , why is this so ?
Who 's there ? What is it ?
Then what 's Antony ? A god of a god ?
She 's probably right . If she offers him her love , it 's very possible that he 'll scorn it , since , as we all know , he tends to be contemptuous .
What dream , boy ? Tell us .
Oh , what an upright judge ! --Pay attention , Jew . --Oh , what a smart judge !
But , begging your pardon , there 's no harm in making guesses and hopeful strategies .
His counselors will govern as long as he 's a minor , and then he 'll take over . It should n't go so badly .
If you like , we 'll stand by and wait to do whatever you need .
Calm down , gentle cousin . Leave him alone . He carries himself like a dignified gentleman , and , to tell you the truth , he has a reputation throughout Verona as a virtuous and well-behaved young man . I would n't insult him in my own house for all the wealth in this town . So calm down . Just ignore him . That 's what I want , and if you respect my wishes , you 'll look nice and stop frowning because that 's not the way you should behave at a feast .
Look , he 's approaching Caesar . Keep an eye on him .
I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon . His father was Philip of Macedon , as I remember .
" De nails . " Listen ! Tell me if I 'm saying it right . De hand , de fangres , et de nails . "
I 'm coming , Graymalkin !
Will he tell us what that pantomime meant ?
And Robin Hood , Scarlet , and John .
The taming school ? Is there such a place ?
Shame on you , you slanderer !
Did you see the weird sisters ?
Tell her . If you send my aged head to that boy , Caesar , he 'll give you all the kingdoms you want .
Now , my companions and brothers in exile , has n't experience made this simple life sweeter than a life of glittery pomp and circumstance ? Are n't these woods less perilous than the court , with all its jealousies and intrigues ? Out here we feel the changing of the seasons , but we 're not bothered by it . When the icy fangs of the brutal , scolding wind bite and blow on my body , even though I 'm shivering with cold , I can appreciate the weather 's honesty . I smile and think , " Thank goodness the wind does n't flatter me : it 's like a councilor who makes me feel what I 'm really made of . " Adversity can have its benefits -- like the ugly , poisonous toad that wears a precious jewel in its forehead . In this life , far away from the civilized world , we can hear the language of the trees , read the books of the running streams , hear sermons in the stones , and discover the good in every single thing .
No , before ! Musicians , play us a song . --Prince , you look sad . You should get a wife ! Your royal staff would be so much more impressive if it were topped off by a horn .
I 'm sorry I was so wrong about him .
Just " madam . " That 's how noblemen address their wives .
Oh , how noble his mind used to be , and how lost he is now ! He used to have a gentleman 's grace , a scholar 's wit , and a soldier 's strength . He used to be the jewel of our country , the obvious heir to the throne , the one everyone admired and imitated . And now he has fallen so low ! And of all the miserable women who once enjoyed hearing his sweet , seductive words , I am the most miserable . A mind that used to sing so sweetly is now completely out of tune , making harsh sounds instead of fine notes . The unparalleled appearance and nobility he had in the full bloom of his youth has been ruined by madness . O , how miserable I am to see Hamlet now and know what he was before !
I shall , King Harry . And so farewell . You 'll never hear from the herald again .
Because we were unprepared for the king 's visit , we were n't able to entertain him as well as we would have wanted to .
I have a toothache .
No , Caesar does n't have epilepsy . You and I , and honest Casca , we have epilepsy -- we 've fallen .
Call all my lord 's noble captains to him .
Why should I be afraid of them , Mother ? If I 'm a pitiful bird , like you say , hunters wo n't want me . No matter what you say , my father is not dead .
My father 's ghost -- armed ! Something 's wrong . I suspect some foul play . I wish the night were here already ! Until then , I have to remain calm . Bad deeds will be revealed , no matter how people try to hide them .
The three of you are sinners , and Destiny made the sea belch you up onto this island -- where no men live , since none of you deserve to live . I 've driven you crazy , and many mad people are driven to kill themselves in desperation . Listen , you fools , my fellow harpies and I carry out Fate 's orders . Your swords are useless against us -- you 'd be more successful swinging them at the empty air , or stabbing at water , than trying to cut off even one of my feathers . My two companions are just as invulnerable as I am . Even if you had the power to hurt us , you 'd find your swords far too heavy to lift . But remember -- and it 's my job to remind you of this -- that in Milan the three of you stole Prospero 's throne and threw him and his innocent child into the sea , which has now taken revenge on you . To punish you for this horrible crime , the higher powers --delaying their punishment , not forgetting about it -- have stirred up the seas and all the creatures of earth against you . --They 've taken your only son from you , Alonso , and they 've ordered me to destroy you slowly , in a way worse than sudden death could ever be . I 'll stay with you every step of your way . The only way to protect yourselves from the angry higher powers -- which are ready to fall upon your head on this empty island -- is for you to be sincerely sorry in your hearts for what you 've done , and to live innocent lives from this time forward .
I have to tell you everything . She 's told me how I can get her out of her father 's house . She 's also told me what gold and jewels she owns , and she 's described the page 's uniform she 's keeping to wear as a disguise . If her father ever goes to heaven , it 'll be because his daughter 's so good . She 'll never be punished with bad luck -- unless it 's because her father is an unbelieving Jew . Come with me . You can look this letter over as you go . Beautiful Jessica will be my torchbearer .
How old are you , Francis ?
His wittiness , a sweet disease , is here one minute and gone the next , sir , as with most fools .
But she must be , Friar . You see that any morals she has left are preventing her from denying the charges : she does n't want to add perjury to her list of sins .
I 'm the one who gave him his military commission , and it is as my proxy that he fought bravely .
I beg your highness ' pardon .
No ? It 's plain enough . The Adam who looks like a cello , in a big leather case . The one who gives tired people " arrest . " The one who gives ruined men new suits -- law suits . The one who 's determined to do more damage with his nightstick than a soldier does with his pike .
That ca n't happen . There 's no power in Venice that can change an established decree . The change will be recorded as a precedent , and many bad legal decisions will result . That ca n't happen .
I 'll tell you , good Brutus . And since you know you can see yourself best by reflection , I 'll be your mirror and show you , without exaggeration , things inside you that you ca n't see . And do n't be suspicious of me , noble Brutus . If I were your average fool , or if I made my feelings for you worthless by making the same promises of friendship to everybody , or if you 'd seen me first flattering men , hugging them tightly , and later slandering them behind their backs , or if you hear that I drunkenly declare friendship at banquets with all the rabble , only then , of course , go ahead and assume I 'm dangerous .
Lend me your sash --Oh , if we only had a stretcher to carry him out of here !
No , not at all . What ? I 've stayed up all night many times before for less important matters , and I 've never gotten sick .
Quite the conspiracy ! We 've all been duped .
Very well .
All I wanted to tell you is that the lantern is the moon , I 'm the man in the moon , this thornbush is my thornbush , and this dog is my dog .
Ignore your virtue and nobility just this once , sir , go ahead .
And what an excellent piece of work it is , too , madam lady ! I wish it were over .
If I were in the habit of fighting the way you are , my life insurance rates would be sky high .
Who comes with him ?
My dear friends , thanks for your patience . I had business that made me late . When you have to steal your own wives some day , I 'll wait for you just as long . Come over here . My future father - in - law , the Jew , lives here . --Hey! Who 's in there ?
Musicians , oh , musicians , play " Heart 's Ease , " " Heart 's Ease . " Oh , I 'll die if you do n't play " Heart 's Ease . "
Sir , your description of him does n't detract from his good qualities , though I know that trying to list them all would make your head spin , and even so you would n't be able to keep up with him .
Duke , the abbess has wronged me and I seek justice .
I ca n't ask you to make my daughter live -- that 's impossible -- but I beg you both to tell the people of Messina that she was innocent when she died . And if your love can produce something from its sadness , write a poem for her ; hang it on her grave and sing it to her bones . Sing it tonight . Then come to my house tomorrow morning , and since you could n't be my son - in - law , be my nephew instead . My brother has a daughter who looks exactly like Hero ; this girl is heir to both our estates . Marry her as you should have married her cousin , and I will let my revenge die .
Come on , you and I will go soon . Early in the morning we 'll both rush to Belmont . Come on , Antonio .
Accusing us of cheating is like the proud peacock accusing someone else of pride . Mistress , you know about that .
It 'll be two o'clock before they arrive from the coronation . Hurry , hurry .
Absolutely -- so long as he gets the girl .
And so I 'm dying . Here I go , here I go . Okay , now I 'm dead . My soul has fled to the sky . My tongue shall see no more , It 's time for the moon to go away .
Oh , you mighty gods ! I hereby renounce this world and all my troubles and torments . If I could bear them better , and not fight against your unstoppable decisions , then I would simply wait until I expired naturally . If Edgar 's alive , bless him , gods ! --Now , man , goodbye .
Step aside . The noise they 're making will wake up Demetrius .
Then I pleaded for you .
The King will beckon you to battle shortly .
Why is Time so cheap about giving out hair ? After all , it 's plentiful in its growth .
An era of universal peace is about to start . If this battle goes well for us , there will be peace in all three corners of the worldAfrica , Asia , and Europe , which were all under Roman rulethree corners of the world .
When ?
See how easy it was to capture her ? Guard her until Caesar arrives .
The one who 's now Queen of Tunis , living at the edge of the world , out of reach of mail service . It takes a letter longer to reach her than it takes a baby boy to grow old enough to shave . Claribel who was the cause of our shipwreck , which a few of us survived -- she was destined to give us an opportunity that we are destined to act on .
You 're smart , though , and if you were sick , you 'd take what you needed to get better .
Good Lord of Lancaster , I am not here as an enemy your father 's peace . But , as I told Westmoreland , these tumultuous times have forced us to behave in these monstrous ways , out of common sense and a regard for our own safety . I sent you a detailed list of our grievances , but you angrily shoved it aside . That 's why this Hydra of a war has broken out . You can get rid of it by agreeing to the just and right things we demand . If you do that , this disease of war will be cured , and the monster will bow at your feet , tame and obedient .
Now please leave me alone , my friends .
May God send the friend a better prince ! I ca n't get him off my hands !
Then you might as well say they 're not dead . But they are dead , and you killed them , you slave of the devil .
Let me say " amen " quickly , before the devil comes in and stops my prayer -- because here comes the devil , disguised as a Jew .
My lord , welcome this man . This is the jester I have met so many times in the forest . He swears he used to be a courtier .
And your lies caused this murder .
Forever and forever , farewell , Brutus ! If we meet again , then we 'll smile indeed . If not , it 's true , this parting was well done .
It 's true , corporal , that he is married to Nell Quickly . And it 's true that she did you wrong , since you were engaged to her .
Who are you ? What are your names ?
There 's two -- a man and a woman .
Not mine , darn it .
Here 's an empty seat , sir .
They are crying and moaning over Tybalt 's corpse . Are you going to join them ? I 'll bring you there .
He knows that you did n't embrace Antony because you loved him , but because you feared him .
Curse you for telling me this . You 've fightened away my courage . I do n't believe those evil creatures anymore . They tricked me with their wordgames , raising my hopes and then destroying them . I wo n't fight you .
Swear by her foot , so she can stamp out the oath .
No , your words are too precious to be wasted on dogs . Throw some of your words at me . Come on , throw your words at me like you would throw stones at a dog .
No , who are you ? Stop and identify yourself .
Call them . Let me see them .
My arm is sore . You 'll have a better game with Mardian .
Hurry , go up to the roof . The Lord Mayor is knocking .
God should keep me from false friends , but they were n't false .
If I ca n't get a job with him , I 'll run away to the ends of the earth . --Oh look , this is lucky , here comes Master Bassanio now . --Let 's go talk to him , Father . If I work for the Jew any longer , you can just call me a Jew .
Yawn , snore .
Good luck , sir .
The poor thing !
Father , go ahead . I ca n't get a job , can I ? I ca n't talk well , no . If any man in Italy has a palm good enough to swear on a Bible with , it 's me . I 've got very good luck ! Here 's my life line . It shows a few wives -- fifteen wives is nothing . Eleven widows and nine maids is a humble beginning for one man . It seems I 'll almost drown three times , and my life will be in danger when I 'm caught in bed with another man 's wife ! But these little lines are the escape routes I can take to get out of that one . If luck 's a lady , she 's good at this business . Father , let 's go . I 'll leave the Jew behind in the blink of an eye .
You 're right --I 'll go quietly . And even though I 'm in a distasteful mood , I 'll work on being happy . I know a terrific wench . She 's beautiful and charming -- a little wild , but also gentle . We 'll eat at her place . My wife has accused me more than once of misbehaving with this woman . I swear to her that I have n't , but it does n't change anything . We 'll go to her place for lunch . Go get the necklace , which I 'm sure is done by now . Bring it to the Porcupine , where this woman is . I 'll to give it to her , just to spite my wife . Hurry , good sir . Since my own doors refuse to admit me , I 'll knock somewhere else and see if they turn me away as well .
I 'm so sorry , ma'am , I thought you were a good person , a well-made chair instead of a crude stool .
Be quiet , people ! Why have you come here in such a mob ?
Oh Othello , you were once so good , then you were tricked by this villain . What can I say to you ?
Begging your pardon , but I 've been invited to see some merchants , who I 'm hoping to see a profit from . But if
We must join forces against the enemy . Our domestic squabbles are not the issue here .
Here . Tell me which part I 'm going to play , then go on .
Yes , I thank God , my father , and yourself .
Right on time . This is the perfect place to rehearse . This clearing will be the stage , and this hawthorn bush will be our dressing room . Let 's put on our play exactly as we 'll perform it for the duke .
I can remember the past seventy years pretty well , and in all that time I have seen dreadful hours and strange things . But last night 's horrors make everything that came before seem like a joke .
Yes , in a very gentlemanly way .
Will you help me?- -What an ass and a fool , a gullible no-good idiot !
Damn it , you potbellied morons , are you finished ? No , you fat misers . I wish everything you owned were here . Come on , pigs , come on ! What , you idiots ! Young men have to survive . You 're Grand Jurors , are n't you ? Well here 's some justice for you !
I 'll do it even if I find you in the company of the king himself .
If I were king ? I 'd rather be a peddler . The thought of being king does n't appeal to me in the least .
On Thursday , sir ? That 's very soon .
Oh , go away , you 're a boring fool . I do n't want to have anything to do with you anymore . Besides , you 've gotten unreliable .
The alcohol that got the servants drunk has made me bold . The same liquor that quenched their thirst has fired me up . Listen ! Quiet ! That was the owl that shrieked , with a scary " good night " like the bells they ring before they execute people . Macbeth must be killing the king right now . The doors to Duncan 's chamber are open , and the drunk servants make a mockery of their jobs by snoring instead of protecting the king . I put so many drugs in their drinks that you ca n't tell if they 're alive or dead .
Fair is foul , and foul is fair . Let 's fly away through the fog and filthy air .
Just listen to him .
What 's the matter ?
And you wo n't tell me who you are ?
My noble uncle , do you know why he acts this way ?
I hear a noise inside . Dear love , goodbye --Just a minute , good Nurse . Sweet Montague , be true . Stay here for a moment . I 'll come back .
You 're a cobbler , are you ?
He 's so kind you 'd think the Jew is turning Christian .
Gone , sir . Goodbye . But I still wonder if it 's possible for his own imagination to kill him , since he 's so willing to die . If he 'd been standing on the edge of the cliff as he thought , he 'd be dead right now . Is he alive or dead?- -Hey , sir , friend ! Can you hear me ? Answer me . --Maybe he passed away after all . But no , he 's stirring . --Who are you , sir ?
I can tell by his voice that this man is a Montague . Get me my sword , boy . --What , does this peasant dare to come here with his face covered by a mask to sneer at and scorn our celebration ? Now , by the honor of our family , I do not consider it a crime to kill him .
Nice work , Tranio !
Yes . And this rope will take care of everybody , I guarantee it .
Just a second , sir !
Yes , that 's true , but why are you wearing your leek today ? Saint Davy 's Day has passed .
If I do so , it will mean more if I say it behind your back than if I say it to your face .
more , until his heart started to break . Then I heard the trumpets blow twice , and left him there in a trance .
How could that happen ?
She shall not .
If it 's me , there 's no time as good as this hour of Caesar 's death , and no weapon better than your swords , covered with the noblest blood in the world . I ask you , if you have a grudge against me , to kill me now , while your stained hands still reek of blood . I could live a thousand years and I would n't be as ready to die as I am now . There 's no place I 'd rather die than here by Caesar , and no manner of death would please me more than being stabbed by you , the masters of this new era .
I 'm the doorkeeper for the moment , and my name is Dromio .
Oh , what a big mistake ! Madam , you ca n't judge a book by its cover . I mean , I may look like a fool , but my mind 's sharp . Please let me prove you 're a fool .
And if that 's true , then Hamlet is the victim of his own illness -- his illness is his enemy . Sir , with this audience as witness , let me declare that I 'm as innocent of premeditated evil against you as I would be if I had happened to shoot an arrow over my house and accidentally hit my brother .
Boy , take these gentlemen to my daughters , and tell them both they are to be their teachers and to be courteous to them .
You will , my lord .
At a reasonable enough time . Come on , Mugs , old friend . Let 's wake up the gentlemen . They want to travel in a group because they 're carrying a lot of valuables .
No , not until Thursday . There 's plenty of time .
No , that 's not logical .
God bless you , Bottom , God bless you . You 've been changed . Reborn .
They were villains , murderers . The will ! Read the will !
If something is telling you not to play , listen to it . I 'll say you 're not feeling well .
Should I bring this answer to the King ?
I never heard so loud a voice issue from such an empty heart . It 's true what they say : " The empty vessel makes the greatest sound . " Bardolph and Nym had ten times more courage than this roaring stage villain , whose nails any Joe could cut with a wooden dagger , but they are both hanged . So would this man if he had the nerve to steal anything bravely . I have to stay with the servants , who are with our camp 's luggage . We 're sitting ducks for the French , if they only knew it , for there is no one guarding it but boys .
But you already answered no .
Then you 're a fool for being sad that your brother 's soul is in heaven . Take away this fool , gentlemen .
Ready , sir , but I have more modest ambitions .
And that 's what you want me to do !
Yes , but not out of fear . I 'll go back to sleep now .
It 's nothing , my lord .
bad news . A robbery victim who can smile about his losses is superior to the thief who robbed him , but if he cries he 's just wasting time .
I 'm sorry , but I memorized what I 'm supposed to say here today , and that question is n't part of the speech I learned . Please , my lady , just confirm that you 're the lady of the house so I can get on with my speech .
No.
That will only make me think more about how beautiful she is . Beautiful women like to wear black masks over their faces -- those black masks only make us think about how beautiful they are underneath . A man who goes blind ca n't forget the precious eyesight he lost . Show me a really beautiful girl . Her beauty is like a note telling me where I can see someone even more beautiful . Goodbye . You ca n't teach me to forget .
What 's the problem , that they cry out so loud ?
That 's very true , mangy rascal , when it pleases God . Meanwhile , I 'd be gratified if you 'd live and eat your food . Come , here 's some sauce to go with it . Yesterday you called me " mountain squire . " Today I 'll make you squire of the low ground . Go on , eat up . If you can mock a leek , you can eat a leek .
In a half an hour he 'll be asleep . Will you kill him then ?
Well then , saint , let lips do what hands do . I 'm praying for you to kiss me . Please grant my prayer so my faith does n't turn to despair .
Look , here it sits , and God will guard it . Even if all the strength in the world were gathered into a single , giant arm , it would n't be able to force this inherited honor from me . I will leave this to my son as you 've left it to me .
Oh no ! Ganymede ! Ganymede , sweetheart ?
Take these too .
I 'm happy the Dauphin has such a good sense of humor . Thank you for his present and your trouble . Once I 've put my rackets to these balls , I 'll play a set in France , God willing , that will knock his father 's crown right out of the court . Tell him he 's got himself such a willing opponent that we 'll be chasing balls all over France . And I understand perfectly his sneering reference to my wilder days . He does n't realize how useful they were to me . For a long time , I did n't value this humble throne of England , and therefore lived at some remove and gave myself over to riotous living . Men tend to be at their most irresponsible when they 're away from home . But tell the Dauphin I will retain the dignity of kingship and appear all the more royal and glorious on the throne of France . Precisely for this purpose I went about like a commoner and experienced the life of the ordinary man . Now I 'll rise there with
We 're probably a very valuable catch for these guys .
That 's what the Prince and my fiance say .
Do you think so ?
This speech is going on too long .
Yes , he 's my best friend , the kindest man and most courteous to others . He 's more honorable than anyone else in Italy .
You ca n't always judge a book by its cover . People are often tricked by false appearances . In court , someone can deliver a false plea but hide its wickedness with a pretty voice . In religion , do n't serious men defend sins with Scripture , covering up evil with a show of good . Every sin in the world manages to make itself look good somehow . How many people are cowards at heart but wear beards like Hercules or Mars , the god of war ? Take another example : beauty . It can be bought by the ounce in makeup , which works miracles . Women who wear it the most are respected the least . It 's the same thing with hair . Curly golden hair moves so nicely in the wind and makes a woman beautiful . But you can buy that kind of hair as a wig , and wigs are made from dead people 's hair . Decoration 's nothing but a danger , meant to trick and trap the viewer . A lovely , cunning shore can distract a man from the perils of a stormy sea , just as a pretty scarf can hide a dangerous dark-skinned beauty . Nowadays , everyone 's fooled by appearances . So I 'll have nothing to do with that gaudy gold box -- it 's like the gold that Midas could n't eat . And I 'll have nothing to do with the pale silver either , the metal that common coins are made of . But this humble lead one , though it looks too threatening to promise me anything good , moves me more than I can say . So this is the one I choose . I hope I 'm happy with my choice !
Yes , and you lie in the sweaty stench of your dirty sheets , wet with corruption , making love --
Following the one I love more than my eyes or my life . More than I will ever love a wife . That 's the truth . The angels in heaven are my witnesses , and can see how pure my love is .
I know I will too , if it 's the last thing I do .
Are you trying to start a fight ?
Get your weapons , gentlemen , get your weapons ! I sent King Henry a brave and defiant message , and Westmoreland , who was our hostage , will deliver it . This will surely bring the battle on immediately .
Yes , mother , it happens all the time .
No , lieutenant --God , gentlemen --Help --Lieutenant -- sir , Montano --Help , men ! --The night guard is coming !
What ?
What ? Did you say something , Silvius ?
Please get him , my friend , I beg you . I 've overheard people plotting to kill him . I have a carriage ready . Put
arthritic leg ? A growing belly ? Is n't your voice scratchy ? Your breath short ? Your chin doubled ? Your last wit abandoned ? Is n't every part of you devastated by age ? And still you call yourself young ? Shame on you , Sir John .
No , I am a Welshman .
By God 's fingers , I thank you . This rogue will stick with you , I promise you that . He wo n't fail , he 's true blue .
Yes , my lord .
You have . Where was she born ? Speak . Tell me .
I 'll bring you to him .
Why ? For standing up for this unpopular king . No , if you ca n't adjust to political changes , you 'll suffer for it . There , take my fool 's cap . This guy here has banished two of his daughters and blessed the third one without intending to . If you work for him , you 're a fool and should wear a fool 's cap . --So how 's it going , uncle ? I wish I had two fool 's caps and two daughters .
I am not proud of what you have found for me . But I am thankful that you have found it . I can never be proud of what I hate . But I can be thankful for something I hate , if it was meant with love .
I wish my horse moved as fast as your mouth and was as tireless . That 's it --I 'm done .
You 're right to say that . This was the hand that gave you my heart .
I swear I 'll smack you if you hit me again .
Girls who marry so young grow up too soon . But go ahead and charm her , gentle Paris ; make her love you . My permission is only part of her decision . If she agrees to marry you , my blessing and fair words will confirm her choice . Tonight I 'm having a feast that we 've celebrated for many years . I 've invited many of my closest friends , and I 'd like to welcome you and add you to the guest list . At my humble house tonight , you can expect to see dazzling stars that walk on the ground and light the sky from below .
" Your brooches , pearls , and gems " --We fight bravely and then come away limping . We retreat from the breach in the wall with our weapons bravely bent . We head off to the doctor , bravely . And then we charge into the brooches , pearls , and gems " again , bravely .
I 'm happy to say " amen " to that !
I would n't want a heart like hers even if you made me queen .
You do n't know whether it was wisdom or fear that made him flee .
" Do n't be afraid of greatness . " That was well written .
Get away , you pickpocket rascal ! You dirty thief , away ! I swear on this wine , I 'll stick a knife in your rotten cheeks if you keep abusing me like this . Out , you boozy rascal ! You imposter of a solider ! Since when are you a soldier , I ask you ? With two armor tags on your shoulder ? I 'm sure !
Oh , my mistress , a villain has made a mockery of your love ! My husband said she was unfaithful !
Do n't you worry about that . You must not think that I 'm so lazy and dull that I can be severely threatened and think it 's just a game . You 'll hear more about my plans soon enough . I loved your father , and I love myself , which should be enough to --
Come with me . I 'll go tell the king about this . This is definitely love - craziness . Love is such a violent emotion that it makes people self - destruct , as much as any strong emotion . I 'm so sorry . Did you tell him anything that might have hurt his feelings lately ?
Am I not wise ?
Quiet ! Let 's hear what Antony has to say .
Well then , ca n't I act as Rosalind for you tomorrow ?
He will not be commanded by you . Here 's another , stronger than the first .
I doubt it 's anything but the obvious reason : his father 's dying and our quick marriage .
And I see her also through the eyes of love .
Really , my lord , I do n't know what to make of it , but she loves him with such a passion that it 's past all understanding .
Be quiet , you . I swear , I do n't like the look of you .
In a word , to ride all night ; not to stop and think , not to dawdle , not to take the time to change my clothes --
You 're overthrowing me ? If you play him even half as well as I did , half as majestically , then hang me up like a rabbit for sale in a butcher shop .
Capulet , you villain ! Do n't stop me . Let me go .
Horns ? You bastard !
I 'm simply performing the violent tragedy that is my life : Edward -- my husband , your son , our king -- is dead . Why should we live now that our leader is dead ? Why are the branches still living when the root is gone ? Why are n't the leaves withering now that the sap is all dried up ?
Two of them are completely honorable , and if they have been tricked in this , we must blame John the Bastard , who lives to create conflict .
How should madmen hear , if wise men ca n't even see ?
Send a junior officer to Stanley 's regiment to tell Stanley to bring his men here before sunrise -- if he wants to see his son George alive .
Good evening , William .
Here 's her father 's house . I 'll call out .
Do n't worry about how I handle it .
How are you , my friend ? Ever since I arrived here , just now , I 've been hearing strange rumors .
Let us go sit with the knight ; for , my little lambs , we will survive him .
No , sir , not at all . I recognize your face perfectly , even without a sailor 's cap on your head . --Take him away . He knows I recognize him .
That 's what happens when you partner with great men but lack their power . I 'd rather carry a reed that obviously ca n't protect me than a sword I cannot lift .
No , nor could the devil 's name be more frightening .
She 's too devious for you . Her smoothness , her silence , and her patient suffering appeal to the people , and they pity her . You 're a fool . She 's robbing you of the attention you deserve . You will seem even brighter and more virtuous when she 's out of the picture . So be quiet . The sentence I 've passed down on her is firm and unshakeable . She is banished .
Why does the crown lie there on his pillow , when it 's such a troublesome bedfellow ? Oh polished aggravation , golden anxiety ! You keep the eyelids open wide , to face countless sleepless nights . You sleep with the crown now , father , but you do n't sleep as soundly , or half so deeply , as that man whose head is bound with nothing more than a cheap nightcap , who snores through the night . Oh , you crown ! When you pinch the person wearing you , you 're like a great suit of armor worn on a hot day -- you burn the person you 're protecting . There 's a feather near my father 's lips , and it 's not moving : if he were breathing , that light , weightless thing would move . My gracious lord ! Father ! This is a deep sleep indeed -- this is a sleep that has removed the golden ring from the heads of many English kings . Father , I owe you tears and a deep grief , and my love , the bonds of family , and a son 's tender feelings will make sure that I pay you lavishly . Your debt to me is this kingly crown , which I am owed as your heir - apparent .
What satisfaction could you possibly have tonight ?
Today shall always be remembered as a holy day . If only all struggles ended this well . One more thing , my dear majesty . Please pardon our brother Clarence .
Back so soon ? Too late is more like it . The chicken is burning , the pig is overcooked , the clock has already struck twelve , and my mistress has clocked me one on the cheek . She 's hot because lunch is cold ; lunch is cold because you 're not home ; you 're not home because you 're not hungry ; you 're not hungry because you 've eaten already . But we servants -- who know how to properly fast and pray -- are being punished for your offenses today .
What is it , Kate ? I must leave you in a few hours .
I mean , his hair is even red -- the same color as that lying Judas .
Sit down , worthy friends . My husband is often like this , and he has been since he was a child . Please stay seated . This is just a brief fit . In a moment he 'll be well again . If you pay too much attention to him you 'll make him angry , and that will make his convulsions go on longer . Eat your dinner and pay no attention to him . Are you a man ?
Yes , I gave her one like that . It was my first gift to her .
In a time like this , it does n't make sense to criticize every offense .
Stand aside , you .
That 's how it is . Nothing else matters . Semper idem . Obsque hoc nihil est .
Here is a friar , and dead Romeo 's man . They 've got tools on them -- tools they could use to open these tombs .
I wear it with pride , for I am Welsh you know , good countryman .
You are welcome here , my friends .
Let 's drink to our general !
Oh , that 's nonsense ! This is just another one of the hallucinations you always get when you 're afraid . This is like that floating dagger you said was leading you toward Duncan . These outbursts of yours do n't even look like real fear . They 're more like how you would act if you were a woman telling a scary story by the fireside in front of her grandmother . Shame on you ! Why are you making these faces ? When the vision passes , you 'll see that you 're just looking at a stool .
He 's there on the ground . He 's been getting drunk on his own tears .
That 's Cassio 's voice . Iago has kept his word .
Yes , boy .
Any man who knows how to write can answer a letter .
Cheap , cheap , cheap . We 're broke , broke , Sir John . But one thing we do have is good air . Set the table , Davy , set the table . Good job , Davy .
But you 're a famous pirate ! A master thief of the seas ! What made you stupid and careless enough to come visit the people you robbed and slaughtered ?
Make room so he can stand in front of me . Shylock , everyone thinks -- and I agree -- that you 're just pretending to be cruel . They think that at the last second you 're going to show mercy and pity , which will be more surprising than the bizarre cruelty that you seem to be showing now . And even though you 're here to collect the penalty -- a pound of this poor merchant 's flesh -- they think you 'll not only let it go , but out of humanity and love you 'll forgive some portion of the principal he owes you too . In doing so you 'll be taking pity on him for his many recent losses , which have been large enough to send even the greatest merchant out of business , and make even the most hard-hearted Turk or Tartar feel sorry for him . What do you say ? We all expect a nice answer from you , Jew .
She 's calling out my name as if I were a bullet murdering her , just like I murdered her relative . Tell me , Friar , in what part of my body is my name embedded ? Tell me , so I can cut it out of myself .
What 's the difference ?
Suffer love ! That 's a good way of putting it . I do suffer love , because I love you against my will .
The watchdogs bark .
Yes , I 'll say it again , my lord . No more than twenty - five .
I 'm here , brother , full of sadness .
I hope to God it 's something political , like you think , and not jealousy involving you .
Well , he 's alive .
I have a headache , right here in my forehead .
Please , leave it here .
Absolutely .
It will rain tonight .
Madam , his majesty asks for you , and for you , Duke of Gloucester , and for you , my noble lords .
I 'll go to the right side . You stay on the left .
Hortensio , have you come to break up the fight ? Con tutto il cuore ben trovato , if I may say so .
Easy , Caesar .
Yes , sir .
Then pack up your instruments and go away . Go !
Please do n't play games . . There 's a bit of gold for you . When the woman taking care of the general 's wife wakes up , could you please tell her that Cassio asks to speak with her ?
Do so . Farewell to you both .
Who , me ?
Silvius , tell this youth what it means to be in love .
Will you be here when I return ?
This terrible behavior proves it . Doctor Pinch , you 're an exorcist . If you can bring him back to his senses , I 'll pay you whatever you demand .
" You come to see the lady Olivia , and she 's kind to you . But you 're a complete liar . That 's not why I 'm challenging you to a duel . "
Shut up , you troublemaker , no more of that . Here comes my lady . If you know what 's good for you , you 'll think up some good excuse for being away so long .
No , I 'll be patient . I wo n't say a word .
Stop , brave lady , stop ! Do n't do such a shameful thing to yourself . We 've rescued you from yourself . We have not betrayed you .
chance to start living . " If these sleeping men were dead instead of sleeping , they 'd be no worse off than they are now . There are a lot of men who can rule Naples just as well as this sleeping guy here can . There are a lot of men who babble nonsense as well as Gonzalo . I could do it myself . Oh , I wish you understood what I 'm saying -- you 'd see how you 're missing out on a great opportunity for yourself ! Do you even get what I 'm saying ?
I dreamed last night that I feasted with Caesar , and unlucky signs overwhelmed my imagination . I have no desire to go outside , yet something leads me there .
Sometimes getting killed is a good way to avoid getting married . And as for being fired , it 's summer , so it wo n't be that bad to be homeless .
There must be some political news from Venice , or some dangerous plot here in Cyprus has ruined his good mood . Men always get angry about little things when they 're really worried about bigger ones . That 's the way it goes . When our finger hurts , it makes the rest of the body hurt too . We should n't expect men to be perfect , or for them to be as polite as on the weddingday . Oh , Emilia , I 'm so inexperienced that I thought he was being unkind , but actually I was judging him harshly .
No , not a chance . You 're supposed to be here in Padua studying . So who would fill in for you -- pretend to be Vincentio 's son , live in his house , pore over his books , welcome his friends , and wine and dine his fellow expatriates from Pisa ?
There 's your boyfriend , sleeping right over there .
He calls me " boy " and scolds me as if he had the power to whip me out of Egypt . He whipped my messenger with rods . He dares me to personal combat , Caesar against Antony . Let the old ruffian discover that I have many other ways to die , and in the meantime , we 'll laugh at his challenge .
Good sir --
Lean forward .
Have him come in .
No , you 're going to see my orchard . We 'll sit in an arbor and eat some of the pippin apples I cross-bred last season , along with some caraway seeds and so on . Come on , Silence . Then we 'll go to bed .
I think the marriage was made more for political reasons than for love .
I take you , Rosalind , to be my lawfully wedded wife .
Antonio , I married a woman as dear to me as life itself . But life itself , my wife , and the whole world are n't more valuable to me than your life is . I 'd give it all up -- yes , I 'd sacrifice them all to this devil here -- to save you .
Yes , God be praised , I have managed to earn his favor .
Oh , so you 'd give me all your tediousness ?
To tell the truth , we 're fighting to win a little patch of ground that 's not worth anything . I myself would n't pay five ducats for it , if someone offered it to me to farm . And it wo n't provide any more profits than that to either the Norwegian or the Pole .
Answer when I call your name . --Nick Bottom , the weaver ?
That 's him , madam .
Who was that ?
First , Peter Quince , tell us what the play is about , then read the names of the actors , and then shut up .
Danger knows that Caesar is more dangerous than he is . We 're two lions born on the same day in the same litter , and I 'm the older and more terrible . I will go out .
Error in the bill , sir , error in the bill ! I ordered that the sleeves be cut out and sewed up again , and I 'll prove it in combat even if your little finger is armed with your thimble .
Call yourself your own sister , because I want you . I will love you , and with you I 'll spend my life . You have no husband yet , and I have no wife . Give me your hand .
Let 's forgive each other . I 'm no less noble than you are , Edmund . If I 'm more noble than you , you 've done me wrong . My name is Edgar , and I 'm your father 's son . The gods are fair , and they use our little vices to punish us . The woman he committed adultery with , your mother , cost him his eyes .
Stop now ; I tell you he wo n't be wronged . Now get going , Davy .
Who 's there ? Westmoreland ?
Why not ? Are you ashamed of me ?
No , sticking to your plan is beastly , savage , devilish . My friend , I detect some pity in your eyes . Please , please take my side and argue for my life . What beggar would n't have sympathy for a prince reduced to begging ?
Go on , go on . You 're an insolent little boy . Is that how it is , really ? This stupidity will come back to bite you . I know what I 'll do . You have to contradict me , do you ? I 'll teach you a lesson . Well done , my dear guests ! You 're a punk , get away . Keep your mouth shut , or else -- more light , more light ! You should be ashamed . ' ll shut you up . Keep having fun , my dear friends !
Where 's Potpan ? Why is n't he helping us clear the table ? He should be moving and scraping plates !
Take comfort . Let 's cure this awful grief by taking revenge on Macbeth .
Well hello , my good boy . How are you doing ?
Madam , tell me quickly , what day is that ?
My lord , I 'll tell you what -- if your son has n't won , on my honor , I 'll exchange all my land for a lace to tie stockings with ; do n't even say such a thing .
Right on cue , here 's the duke himself .
Tell him I 'll take the leek out of his hat on Saint Davy 's Day and slap his head with it .
Well , first of all , my horse is tired and my master and mistress have had a falling out .
What , my love ?
Boy , your words ca n't excuse the harm you 've done to me . So now turn and draw your sword .
Come on , come on , you little night sinner , come on .
Good ! It 's a bet .
Good lords , escort him to his regiment . I 'm going to try to take a nap despite my racing thoughts so that exhaustion wo n't get the better of me tomorrow , when I 'll need to ride as if my horse had wings . Again , good night , kind lords and gentlemen .
He lost both , my lord . --Ma'am , this letter is from your sister , and needs an immediate answer .
Yes , your Highness .
You 're supposed to sing , " A down a - down , " and you , " Call him a - down - a . " Oh , how it turns around like a wheel ! Like the worker who stole his boss 's daughter .
I have an adventurous fairy who 'll go seek out the squirrel 's secret stash and get you some fresh nuts .
My lord !
Take my hand , Hastings . From now on , I 'll forget the hatred I used to feel for you .
You explained it all .
Wait , I will win the wager more spectacularly , going even further to demonstrate her obedience , her newly created virtue and obedience .
Let 's go . Good Enobarbus , consider yourself my guest as long as you 're here .
Was it you that was always plotting to kill him ?
Are you talking about Caesar ? He 's without equal !
We used to think so too . But the way he 's divided the kingdom recently , nobody can tell which of the dukes he favors more . He 's split the kingdom so evenly that it 's impossible to see any indication of favoritism .
I bet you 're a happy fellow who does n't care about anything .
I 'll deliver the message . I thank your Highness .
Yeah , come on , you starved dog .
Yes , my lord , I played the part of a gossip and brought him the news . I found him here , as sad as a rabbit in a burrow . I told him -- and I think I was telling the truth -- that you had won the lady 's heart . I offered to accompany him to the willow tree , where he could either make a garland -- fit to be worn by an abandoned lover -- or gather sticks into a bundle , ready for his beating .
Come on , take us to him .
We 've infected him ! Keep it up .
Where is he now ?
God knows I love someone . But who ? I ca n't let my lips say his name ; " No man must know . "
Madam , before you take up the instrument or begin to learn the fingering , I must teach you certain fundamentals . To help you remember the scales , I 've come up with a little trick -- more fun and effective than those that any of my colleagues use . Here , I 've written it out .
And with my own officer !
The king is enraged .
Yes .
Satan ! You are living inside this man ! I order you to release him through my prayers and to return immediately to the darkness you came from . I demand this in the name of all the saints in heaven .
Caesar ? He 's a god of a man .
Oh , the poor bird . Now he 'll hide himself in the bushes . But how strange that Beatrice should seem to know who I was and yet not know at the same time . " The Prince 's fool " ! Maybe they call me that because I am cheerful . Yes , but I am insulting myself by thinking this way . I do n't have that kind of reputation ! Beatrice 's mean , sarcastic nature makes her believe that the entire world shares her opinions ; that 's why she describes me this way . Well , I 'll get my revenge .
And an " O " like a noose will end this , I hope .
Fierce , fiery warriors fought in the clouds in the usual formations of war -- ranks and squadrons -- until the clouds drizzled blood onto the Capitol . The noise of battle filled the air , and horses neighed , and dying men groaned , and ghosts shrieked and squealed in the streets . Oh , Caesar ! These things are beyond anything we 've seen before , and I 'm afraid .
Are you sick ? And is it healthy to walk uncovered and breathe in the dampness of the morning ? You 're sick , yet you sneak out of your warm bed and let the humid and disease-infested air make you sicker ? No , my Brutus , you have some sickness within your mind , which by virtue of my position I deserve to know about . And on my knees , I urge you , by my once - praised beauty , by all your vows of love and that great vow of marriage which made the two of us one person , that you should reveal to me , who is one half of yourself , why you 're troubled and what men have visited you tonight . For there were six or seven men here , who hid their faces even in the darkness .
Go , blockheads , go , and bring my supper to me .
Why , Fool ?
I ca n't wait . I hope it does n't make me unchaste that I really want to be a married woman .
I 'm not a traitor .
Dromio , tell the servants to prepare for lunch .
Thank you .
I have my naked sword out . Fight , I 'll back you up .
Alas , our poor country ! It 's too frightened to look at itself . Scotland is no longer the land where we were born ; it 's the land where we 'll die . Where no one ever smiles except for the fool who knows nothing . Where sighs , groans , and shrieks rip through the air but no one notices . Where violent sorrow is a common emotion . When the funeral bells ring , people no longer ask who died . Good men die before the flowers in their caps wilt . They die before they even fall sick .
But a lot of men have more hair than intelligence .
Let 's go , then ! Come , find the conspirators !
You slander her , you devil .
If so , you 'd be buying them to sell again .
For King Henry .
Yes , you 're right . Please go on . I feel better already , and I know there 's more good advice where that came from .
A friend .
Where was Gloucester 's son Edmund when they gouged his eyes out ?
I 'm amazed you 're still talking , Signior Benedick . No one 's listening to you .
No , let me talk , and let me scold to the heavens , so that Fortune , that deceitful hussy , will become so upset that she breaks her wheel . Fortune was often depicted as a woman with a wheel , which controlled human beings ' fates.Fortune , that deceitful hussy , will become so upset that she breaks her wheel .
Do n't be afraid . She ca n't hurt you , Helena .
She flirted with the messenger boy to exasperate you , fire up your passions , and make you angry and jealous . You should have run up to her , unleashed a few excellent quips invented on the spot , and rendered the young man speechless .
He 's waiting outside .
Truly , lady , you have a merry heart .
That 's the one part of my service on land I do deny . But let 's shake hands , Menas .
Yes , he heard it , and it affected him deeply .
Here 's my hand .
My lord , what 's wrong with you ? You 're not doing yourself any good by refusing to tell your friends what 's bothering you .
At least we 're not the first ones in our position . The road to hell is paved with good intentions . But I 'm worried about you , my poor King . If it were only me , I would just wait out my bad luck . Should we meet with my sisters ?
What news do you have ?
Who is that man ?
Stop .
O , everlasting shame ! Let 's fall on our swords . Are these the wretches that we threw dice for ?
Banishment is death by the wrong name . Calling death banishment is like cutting off my head with a golden ax and smiling while I 'm being murdered .
Taurus ! That governs the torso and heart , does n't it ?
My good lord , I still need you to like me . Be patient , because the prize I 'm leading you to will make you forget how smelly you are now . So be quiet . It 's as silent as a graveyard here .
If only that were all it is --
Now , as you 're a Roman , tell me the truth .
Treat him as my loyalty toward you calls for .
I 'd love it . Nice Grumio , bring me some .
What -- is he scared of a gun that only fired a blank ?
Where 's that snake ? Bring the villain forward .
All right , we 'll see you at dinnertime . I must be one of these silent so-called wise men Gratiano 's talking about , because he never lets me get a word in .
And I 'll help you . Here comes the Prince and Claudio .
I get what you 're driving at , sir . You 're a very clever beggar .
He 's welcome here .
Until the day we die , my lord .
Dearest , kindest , most honorable sir , may I say , with your esteemed approval , which is lit up by the illuminating radiance of the sun - god Phoebus , that --
You 're wise ! That 's for sure .
I 'll listen to your advice . And once we 've got this civil war in hand , we will , my friends , march to the Holy Land .
The lady 's overdoing it , I think .
Please , I beg you , do n't scold me . The girl I love now returns my love . The other girl did not love me .
Ha ! Shall we dance Egyptian bacchanals , my noble emperor , and celebrate our wine ?
All right , I understand .
Someone might marry a second time for money , but never for love . Any time I kissed my second husband in bed , I 'd kill the first one all over again .
Well , if a moist palm is n't a clear sign of promiscuity , then I ca n't scratch my own ear . Please , tell her an ordinary fortune .
Did you think I was talking about sex ?
What ! Who goes there ? I think it 's my bad eyesight that 's making me see this horrible vision . It 's coming toward me . Are you real ? Are you a god , an angel , or a devil , that you make my blood turn cold and my hair stand up ? Tell me what you are .
Peter , wait for me at the gate .
I 'll cut your throat , sooner or later -- that 's just how it is .
Ding , dong , bell .
Look , here he comes .
The marshal of France , Monsieur la Far .
All I know is that I 'm being beaten .
I 'll give you some letters shortly . Come with me , Master Gower .
It 's true . She 's gone . The rest of my life will be nothing but bitterness . Now , Roderigo , where did you see her?- -Oh , that miserable wretch ! --You say you saw her with the Moor? --Oh , who would want to be a father?- -How did you know it was her?- -To think she tricked me so easily ! --What did she say to you?- -Get me more candles , and wake up all my relatives . Do you think they 're married ?
In Orsino 's heart .
Why , you 're absolutely right , cousin .
I 'll give you a chance to judge later . First let 's go to dinner .
My lord , I 'll watch him as closely as I would a thief . I wo n't miss a trick .
You must be joking . There will be no lecture .
I 'm an ass , I 'm a woman 's servant , and I 'm beside myself .
Then here 's to you , Mistress . Dorothy , I 'll charge you .
Listen , nephew , please .
Gentlemen , do n't speak . We obey you to go with us .
There 's more to it than that . --Ganymede!
You , Lord Archbishop -- whose diocese is peaceful and law - abiding; whose beard has turned white , signifying a peaceful life ; whose education and learning are the products of peaceful times ; who is the dove and very blessed embodiment of peace -- why are you translating yourself from the graceful language of peace into the harsh , violent language of war ? You 're turning your books into coffins , your ink into blood , your pens into swords , and your holy words into a trumpet that sounds a call to arms .
I took their stings too , would n't you say ?
I would n't believe this if I were n't seeing it with my own eyes . It 's real , and it breaks my heart .
Watch out for the drawbridge over there !
The Lord keep him from the title of king ! Richard has set boundaries between my love and theirs ? I am their mother . Who 's going to keep me from them ?
Your worst fault is being in love .
What mercy can you show him , Antonio ?
Buck up , boy ! You 're a man ? You do n't have a man 's courage .
Though your king did not die in battle , let him die from overindulging his appetites , as my husband was murdered to make your husband king . May your son Edward , who is currently the prince of Wales , die young and violently , as payback for the death of my son Edward , the former prince of Wales . And may you outlive your glory just as miserably as I have , to make up for taking my position as queen . May you live long enough to mourn your children 's deaths and watch another woman enjoy the throne , as I now watch you . Let your happy days die long before you do . After many extended hours of grief , may you die neither a mother , a wife , nor England 's queen . Rivers , Dorset , and Lord Hastings , you all stood by as my son was stabbed . For his sake , I pray to God that none of you die a natural death but have your lives cut short by some unforeseen accident .
No , I 'll slit the nose of the villain who would have sent me to jail .
I know it . It 's my sister 's . She 'll be here soon , just like her letter said . Has my sister arrived ?
He thinks he 's still playing his instrument . Lucius , wake up !
My dogs are bred from Spartan hounds . They have the same folds of flesh around their mouths , the same sandy-colored fur , and hanging ears that brush the morning dew off the grass . They have crooked knees and folds of skin under their necks , just like the Spartan hounds . They 're not very fast in the chase , but their barking sounds like bells ringing . Each bark is perfectly in tune with the others , like notes on a scale . No one , anywhere , has ever gone hunting with a more musical pack of dogs . Judge for yourself when you hear them . But wait a minute ! Who are these women ?
Ensign Iago , welcome . --And welcome to you , too , madam . Do n't be upset that I kissed your wife hello , Iago . It 's a courtesy where I come from .
Bring these criminals with us . We 'll go talk to Margaret , to see how she got involved with this worthless man .
I ca n't sleep quietly in the Tower .
Think of your sins .
Which is the lady I 'm supposed to marry ?
In that case , cheer up . Your brains wo n't need slippers to protect them from frostbite , since your brains are n't in your feet -- if they were you would n't take this useless journey to see Regan .
I 'll tell you what , Prince : a whole university full of wisecrackers could n't change my mood today . You think I care what I 'm called ? Well , I do n't . If a man is always afraid of what others think , he wo n't even dare to dress nicely , because he 'll be afraid people will talk about him . In short , since I intend to get married , I wo n't hear anyone say a bad thing about it . So do n't go making fun of me for what I said before . Man is a giddy , flighty thing : that 's my conclusion . And Claudio -- though I 'm sure I would have beaten you in our duel -- since you 're likely to become my relative , I 'll let you go , unbruised , and love my cousin Hero .
Well , well , you have a careful father , child . He has arranged a sudden day of joy to end your sadness . A day that you did not expect and that I did not seek out .
Whatever . A curse on all cowards , I still say .
If he were dead , you 'd be weeping for him . If you are n't weeping , it 's a good sign that I 'll soon have a new father .
You get better in your jokes and worse in your manners .
Is Antonio here ?
Cornwall and Albany , you and your wives can divide this last third of my kingdom between you . If she wants to be proud , or " honest , " as she calls it , she can just marry her own pride . I hereby grant to you two my crown and all the privileges that kingship brings . I 'll live one month with one of you , the next month with the other one . All I ask is that you provide me with a hundred knights for my own entourage . I 'll keep only the title of king , but you 'll have everything else : all the authority and income that come with kingship . To confirm all this , take this crown to share between yourselves .
What is it , my lord ? Why do you look like that ?
I will weigh heavily on your soul tomorrow --I , Rivers , who died at Pomfret . Despair , and die !
Then do n't make yourself too conspicuous .
I do n't doubt it .
Oh , control yourself , lady !
I might be looking for both the daughter and her father . What 's it to you ?
Sir , that would be me and my partner .
No , Antony . Pick one of these lots . Whether your banquet is first or last , your Egyptian cooking will make it the best . I heard that Julius Caesar got fat from all the feasting there .
What 's this , my lord ? I was talking to a petitioner here just now , someone who 's suffering from your anger .
Whatever . Stand over there .
What you 're doing is the way to make her scorn you continually .
No ? To malign me , and call me a pantry servant and a bread - trimmer , and I do n't know what else ?
It 's gone . We were wrong to threaten it with violence , since it looks so much like a king . Besides , we ca n't hurt it anymore than we can hurt the air . Our attack was stupid , futile , and wicked .
I told you your son was popular in Padua . Hear that , sir ? Games aside , though , would you be good enough to tell Signior Lucentio that his father has arrived from Pisa and stands at the door waiting to speak with him ?
Welcome , young man : you bring a great present to your brothers ' wedding . To Oliver , you return his lands ; to Orlando , you give a whole dukedom , since he will inherit my land . But first , let 's finish the things we started out here . Then I 'll share the abundance of my returned fortune with all those that have stayed out here with me , according to the rank and status each of you enjoy . But until then , let 's forget our nobility and enjoy some fun . Music , please . Brides and bridegrooms , dance your happiness away .
Well , then she 's the one for me . Sweetheart , let me see your face .
Listen to you ! Do n't be silly !
My own ears heard it , and you know it . To hell with you ! It 's a shame that you walk the streets with all the honest men .
You have wonderful armor , but give my horse his due .
I will lower my voice .
Sir , I really feel the need to give you something . Take some memento from us as a token of our gratitude , not as a fee . Please do two favors for me . First , do n't refuse me , and second , excuse me for insisting .
Please , excuse me , sir . I ca n't speak .
No , they 're busy and as excellent as ever . The problem is that they have to compete with a group of children who yell out their lines and receive outrageous applause for it . These child actors are now in fashion , and they 've so overtaken the public theaters that society types hardly come at all , they 're so afraid of being mocked by the playwrights who write for the boys .
You call that ranting ?
That Lepidus is an elegant man .
What does this mean ? Has everyone else come back too ? Or is it all a lie -- and no one has yet returned ?
I 'll get him now .
What , my good lord ?
I did . I saw him dead on the ground , bleeding and not breathing . Are you alive ? Or is this some kind of dream , playing with our sight ? Talk to us . We wo n't trust our eyes without our ears . You are n't what you seem to be .
If I told you that , what would I get out of it ?
It 's still warm from the cut . It was just removed from from the heart of -- oh , she 's dead !
" The battle between Hercules and the Centaurs , to be sung by an Athenian eunuch , accompanied by a harp . " No , we wo n't see that . I 've already told that story to Hippolyta , while praising my cousin Hercules . What else ? " The riot of the drunk Bacchanals who rip the singer Orpheus to shreds . " That 's an old show , and I saw it the last time I came back from conquering
Let 's go greet him when he lands .
I hope lightning strikes her in the eyes ! I hope poisonous swampy fog covers her face and ruins her complexion !
The only man I love is the son of the only man I hate ! I saw him too early without knowing who he was , and I found out who he was too late ! Love is a monster for making me fall in love with my worst enemy .
I remember , Adam , that 's exactly why my father only left me a thousand crowns in his will . And as you know , my father commanded my brother , Oliver , to make sure that I was brought up well -- and that 's where my sadness begins . Oliver keeps my brother Jaques away at school , and everyone says he 's doing extremely well there . But he keeps me at home in the country -- to be precise , he keeps me stuck at home but does n't support me . I ask you , is this any way to treat a gentleman as nobly born as I am , to pen me in like an ox ? His horses get treated better than I do -- at least he feeds them and trains them properly , and spends a lot of money on trainers for them . All I 've gained from his care is weight , which makes me as indebted to him as his animals on the manure pile are . He gives me plenty of nothing , and takes away everything else , letting me eat with his servants , refusing me what 's owed me as his brother , and ruining my good birth with a poor education . This is what angers me , Adam . My father 's temper and spirit , which I think I share , makes me want to mutiny against my brother 's tyranny . I wo n't stand for it any longer , though I have n't yet figured out how to revolt .
It may be so . It seems to me that your voice has changed , and that your speech is more elegant than it used to be .
The four of us jumped about a dozen --
Oh Dardanius !
Well , well , he was the most covert traitor who ever lived . Would you believe , if we had n't caught him , this subtle traitor would have murdered the Lord of Gloucester and me in the council room today ?
He 's in his chambers now , and he 's extremely upset .
Certainly , I did . But if you remember , I did n't tell you to parody the style . Go on home , sir . You 've lost me as a customer . I wo n't take it . Do whatever you want with it .
Bow - wow .
Who do you think you are , keeping me out of my own house ?
Well , I hope you stay in that frame of mind or some poor man will end up with his face all scratched up .
Well , look : there must be another flood coming , with these couples also on their way to Noah 's ark . Here comes a pair of those strange creatures called " fools " in any language .
To wake a wolf is as bad as to smell a fox .
Do n't worry about me .
His body 's healthy , sir .
What would you think of me if I started crying ?
Yes , I think that 's true .
What if a fellow were bringing him a couple of hundred pounds to toss around ?
Receive all the blessings of a happy father . Get up and tell me how you came here .
My noble king , my friends have informed me that Sir Edward Courtney and his brother , the haughty Bishop of Exeter , are now in Devonshire , where they have assembled an army .
And I swear by my wickedness that I am a knave . But you ca n't swear by what you do n't have -- and this knight had no honor , or if he did , he swore it off before he ever saw those pancakes and that mustard .
Bad news , by God . The news is always bad . But this news is bound to make the world go mad .
I think they rise up to heaven and arouse God from his gentle sleep . Oh Buckingham , watch out for that dog , Richard ! When he seems to be fawning on you , he 's actually about to bite . And his poisonous bite kills . Have nothing to do with him . Beware of him . All the powers of sin , death , and hell are doing his bidding .
I gave my lover a ring and made him swear never to lose it or give it away . And here he is . I 'd swear he would n't leave it behind , or even take it off his finger , for all the money in the world . To tell the truth , Gratiano , you 're giving your wife a valid reason to get upset . If it were me , I 'd be very upset too .
I want all such offenders to be dealt with that way , and I give precise orders that in our progress through the country there shall be nothing seized from the villages , nothing taken that is not paid for , none of the French harassed or abused in disrespectful language . For when mercy and cruelty compete for a kingdom , the gentler player is bound to win .
Do you think I 'd break my oath ?
Please , calm down !
Oh , I 'm sorry , why is she mean ?
No , really , his hair is a nice color .
