It 's too difficult , I think , madam .
Please do n't call him that , sir . He 's just Launcelot .
If you do n't mind , which of you is Judge Shallow ?
I knew because I helped nurse him through his suffering . Listen to my little story , and when it 's done , oh , my heart will break ! To escape the decree condemning me
My captain sends his regards . My captain , Sir John Falstaff . He 's a valiant gentleman , I swear , and a brave leader .
Let me in to see the generals . There 's a grudge between them , and it is n't a good idea for them to be alone .
It 's always appropriate to deal with matters as they arise .
Say something , cousin . Or , if you ca n't say anything , stop his mouth with a kiss and do n't let him speak , either .
If you 're smart , you 'll go home .
Leave him to my wrath . --Edmund , go with my sister - in - law . You should n't have to see the punishment we inflict on your father . Tell the Duke of Albany to prepare for war immediately . We will do the same . We 'll keep the lines of communication open between us . Goodbye , my dear sister - in - law . Goodbye , lord Gloucester .
Who 's there ?
By God , I think the only people who are safe are the queen 's own relatives and the late-night messengers the king uses to fetch his mistress , Mistress Shore . Did you hear how Lord Hastings had to beg the queen to be freed ?
I was sent for a rope ! God and the rope maker are my witnesses !
It 's noble Kent , your friend .
What should I say ? I 've been dishonored : I arranged for a friend of mine to marry a common whore .
Listen to me , good Shylock .
Well , I do n't know what to say .
Which one ? A brown one , right ? With its ears clipped ?
So , tell people that you 're from Epidamnum - otherwise all your goods will be confiscated . Just today , a merchant from Syracuse was arrested for coming here . He could n't afford the ransom , so by law , he 'll be put to death before the sun sets . Here 's the money you asked me to hold .
So how 's my nephew Hamlet doing ?
That 's exactly what they said . Who 's this ?
Look !
Amen .
No , you 've misunderstood me -- where are the criminals whom I 'm supposed to examine ? Have them come in front of the master constable .
You ca n't deny this , gentlemen . This morning , Prince John secretly snuck out of Messina . Hero was accused exactly as the watchman described , and died on the spot from the grief . Master Constable , tie up these men and bring them to Leonato 's . I 'll get there first and tell him what we found out .
Did it really work ?
The duke of Gloucester , who has command over the siege , is in consultation with an Irishman , a very valiant gentleman indeed .
You speak well .
Stanley , what news do you have ?
As a friend or an enemy ?
But major issues must come before minor ones .
you , as sure as your name 's Roderigo , if I were the Moor I would n't want to be Iago . I may seem to love and obey him , but in fact , I 'm just serving him to get what I want . If my outward appearance started reflecting what I really felt , soon enough I 'd be wearing my heart on my sleeve for birds to peck at . No , it 's better to hide it . I 'm not who I appear to be .
But pretty soon he came back to meet Romeo , who was overcome with the desire for revenge . As quick as lightning , they started fighting . Before I could break up the fight , Tybalt was killed . Romeo ran away when Tybalt fell dead . I 'm telling you the truth , I swear on my life .
Does he know about this wicked crime ?
We are required to serve the queen , and we must obey her . Farewell , brother . I will go to the king and do whatever you want me to , even if it 's to call my brother 's wife " sister , " in order to set you free . But just so you know , I am very angry about how our own brother has treated you , angrier than you can imagine .
What ? He did ?
As I slept under this yew - tree here , I had a dream that my master and someone else were fighting and that my master killed him .
Quiet , everyone ! Quiet !
Investigate how this foul murder came about .
" Why , Jack boy , ho boy ! " and all the news you want .
What should I do ?
the core , I kept Hamlet 's condition secret and let it grow more and more dangerous . Where has he gone ?
It 's locked away in my memory , and you 've got the key .
I see . Well , that 's an honest answer . Have a nice day .
My good lords , I plan to .
I 'll play the part wearing either a straw-colored beard , or a sandy beard , or a red beard , or one of those bright yellow beards that 's the color of a French coin .
I 'm not sad , my lord .
Twenty - five , sir .
It 's one of those nostalgic moods caused by sorrow .
Oh , sad day !
wise and graceful as the earth is wonderful and divine . Teach me how I should think and speak . My understanding is clumsy and human , riddled with errors -- it is feeble , shallow , and weak . Reveal to me the hidden meaning of your words . Why would you have me betray the truth of my emotions and make my love wander in some other direction ? Are you a god ? Are you trying to remake me ? Go ahead , I 'll yield to your power . But if I am myself , then I know for sure that your weeping sister is not my wife . I do n't owe her any duty -- it 's you that I submit to . Oh , sweet mermaid , do n't command me to drown myself in the flood of your sister 's tears . Siren , use your song to make me love you instead , and I will obey . Spread your golden hair over the silver waves , and I will lie down in it like a bed . If a man could Siren in that glorious fantasy , then I think he would benefit by dying . Love is light and therefore floats -- if my love is false , let me sink !
frigid . She pretends to be virtuous and to disdain the word " sex , but she 's hornier than a passel of rabbits . Women are sex machines below the waist , though they 're chaste up above . Above the waist they belong to God , but the lower part belongs to the devil . That 's where hell is , and darkness , and fires and stench ! Death and orgasm ! Ah , ah , ah ! Give me an aphrodisiac , pharmacist . Let me have sweet dreams . There 's money in it for you .
Oh , sad day !
He does , and now he 's taking revenge on you -- for breaking promises and for murder , too . You took a holy oath to fight for King Henry VI .
No , really . I am worried about you !
Take him safely through the lines .
Truly , she 's as well-traveled as the highway to London .
Which two crowns would those be ?
I 'll tell you about the beginning , and if you find that interesting you can see the end . The best is yet to come , and they 're going to perform it right here .
Oh , as well as anybody .
Give me your glove , soldier : look , here is its mate . It was I , in fact , whom you promised to strike . And you spoke of me in the harshest terms .
Oh no , I 'm afraid the servants woke up , and the murder did n't happen . For us to attempt murder and not succeed would ruin us . Listen to that ! I put the servants ' daggers where Macbeth would find them . He could n't have missed them . If Duncan had n't reminded me of my father when I saw him sleeping , I would have killed him myself .
It was a bit short , my lord .
I hope to God he keeps his promise !
These men are like moths , drawn to these boxes as if they were flames . This is how the candle burned the moth . Oh , these fools ! When they choose , they only know how to lose .
Let me play the lion too . I 'll roar so well that it 'll be an inspiration to anyone who hears me . I 'll roar so well that the duke will say , " Let him roar again . Let him roar again . "
No , girl ! It eats and sleeps and has the same five senses we do . The gentleman you see now was in the shipwreck , and if he were n't a little spoiled by grief , which always ruins good looks , you could call him handsome . He 's lost his comrades and is wandering around looking for them .
Yes , and these .
Light the candles ! Wake up my whole household ! I dreamt about this . I 'm starting to worry it 's true . Give me some light !
Your scolding is somewhat overblown . I 'd be angry with you if the occasion allowed .
Sir John , you 've been loitering here too long . You have to recruit soldiers in the counties you pass through on your way north .
Yes , that 's it .
Cassio , my lord ? No , I do n't think so . He would n't sneak away looking so guilty when he saw you coming .
My beloved -- as my actions will prove .
What a strange sight -- a man who has put on all his fancy clothes but forgotten his brain at home !
I 'm really worried about that .
Be thrifty . And keep yourself hidden , I command you .
No , my lord .
Listen to me , good brother .
Yes , I thank God that I am as honest as all the other old men who are not honester than me .
I swear to God , I 'm exceedingly tired .
Good lad ! Here , buy yourself a drink on me . He gives BIONDELLO some money .
I only partly believe it , for I 'm enthusiastic and resolved to meet all dangers without wavering .
Well , we 've missed the beginning ; it 's dead and buried .
Leave me .
And I am one who loves Bianca more than words can express , more than you can imagine .
Well , what 's your plan ? Is it feasible ?
Why are you mumbling to yourself instead of answering the order I gave you ? Dromio , you drone , you snail , you slug , you idiot !
Farewell to you both ; go now .
Evil rumors are going around . Unnatural acts will cause supernatural things to happen . People with guilty and deranged minds will confess their secrets to their pillows as they sleep . This woman needs a priest more than a doctor . God forgive us all ! Look after her . Remove anything she might hurt herself with . Watch her constantly . And now , good - night . She has bewildered my mind and amazed my eyes . I have an opinion , but I do n't dare to say it out loud .
Oh Portia , these are some of the worst words that ever stained a piece of paper . My darling , when I gave my love to you , I told you that all the wealth I had ran within my veins -- that I have noble blood , but no money . When I said that , I told you the truth . But my dear , when I said I was worth nothing , I was actually bragging --I should 've said that I was worse than nothing . I 've borrowed money from a dear friend who in turn borrowed money from his mortal enemy for my sake . Here 's a letter , my dear . The paper 's like my friend 's body , and every word in it is a bleeding wound on that body . --But is it true , Salerio ? Have all his business ventures failed ? Not even one success ? He had ships to Tripolis , Mexico , England , Lisbon , North Africa , and India , and not one of these ships avoided the rocks ?
What did he say ?
What are you talking about ?
What if I am ? Is there a problem ?
She talks about her father a lot , and says she hears there are conspiracies around the world , and coughs , and beats her breast , and gets angry over tiny matters , and talks nonsense . Her words do n't mean anything , but her babbling causes her listeners to draw conclusions . They hear what they want to hear . Her winks and nods and gestures do suggest that she means to convey a message , and not a happy one .
I do n't know about that . Here he is : I turn him over to you . Please , sir , have it added to the record of things accomplished today . If you do n't , I 'll have a ballad printed about it , with a picture of Coleville kissing my foot on the cover . And if I 'm forced to do that , and I
All I have to do is remove it .
I speak from my heart and from my soul too . If not , curse them both .
You have n't hurt me much yet , but you will soon , I can tell by your trembling . Prospero sent you here .
I 'll stay , my lord . May God bring you sleep !
Here I go .
Let 's listen to him . He may say something concerning Caesar .
And your wit is as blunt as a practice sword , with its dull tip ; it hits people but does n't hurt them .
Indeed , before you arrived here , old Siward , with ten thousand soldiers already prepared for battle , was making his way here . Now we will fight Macbeth together , and may the chances of our success be as great as the justice of our cause ! Why are you silent ?
Angry enough to run away . You wo n't stand and fight .
Oh , I do n't know . Just because we would n't want to put up with her tantrums , that does n't mean there are n't guys who would , if we could find them . Guys who 'd take her with all her faults , provided there were enough money involved .
No , but it 's unbelievable that the man who was his dearest friend , a man he has showered with love and favor , would repay the king with treachery , selling his own sovereign 's life to a foreign power !
It 's been decided , though not yet officially announced . But that 's what will happen if the king dies .
No , sir --I know my duty . Launcelot
These commitments are reliable , our allies are solid , and the beginning of our project bodes well .
Where 's Spain ?
Sir , my master wants to speak with you .
Here comes another Jew . You could n't find a third like these two unless the devil himself turned into a Jew .
The duke 's leaving the temple . Two or three more lords and ladies have been married too . If we 'd been able to put on our play , we would have had it made .
No , I wo n't . Strange and terrible events are all welcome , but I despise comforts . The size of my sorrow must be as great as its source .
Tell me , how did you get in here ? And why did you come ? The orchard walls are high , and it 's hard to climb over them . If any of my relatives find you here they 'll kill you because of who you are .
We 'll cool the mixture with baboon blood . After that the charm is finished .
Queen of Egypt , greetings !
What would you have said , my young York ? Do tell .
Who 's shouting ?
Listen , if you want a good laugh -- and I mean a side-splitting one -- then follow me . That gullible idiot Malvolio must have renounced Christianity , since no Christian could do such outrageous things as he 's doing . He 's wearing yellow stockings .
Quiet down in this prison !
That 's a lively lie , sir -- it jumps so fast from me to you .
That 's what Fulvia told me . I beg you , turn away and cry for her . Then say good-bye to me and tell me those tears were for my benefit . Good . Now perform a scene for me , using your excellent skills of playacting , and pretend that you 're being honorable and righteous .
Good to see you , Sir John !
Someone should play the part of Wall . He can have some plaster or clay or limestone or something on him to show the audience he 's a wall . He can hold his fingers in a V-shape like this , and Pyramus and Thisbe can whisper to each other through that little crack .
Yes , he was hotheaded even in the prime of his life . Now that he 's old , we can expect to have to deal not only with his old character flaws , which have turned into deep-rooted habits , but also with the uncontrollable crabbiness that comes with old age .
She cried a lot at that , and said she did n't care .
Now that the wind is favorable , let 's board the ship . --My Lord of Cambridge and my good Lord of Masham and you , my noble knight , what do you think ? Will our army cut a swath through the fighting force of France , achieving and accomplishing everything I 've assembled them to do ?
Oh , but I 'm worried . How did you two get separated ?
Psh ! They wo n't see our horses , because I 'll tie them in the forest . We 'll put on new masks after we leave them . And , just for this occasion , I 've made cloaks out of rough buckram cloth , to cover our regular clothes .
Oh , do n't fight by sea , noble Emperor ! Do n't trust rotten planks . Do n't you trust my sword and these wounds ? Let the Egyptians and Phoenicians go swimming . We are used to winning by standing on the earth and fighting toe to toe .
I 've written to Fortinbras 's uncle , the present head of Norway , an old bedridden man who knows next to nothing about his nephew 's plans . I 've told the uncle to stop those plans , which he has the power to do , since all the troops assembled by young Fortinbras are Norwegian , and thus under the uncle' s control . I 'm giving the job of delivering this letter to you , good Cornelius , and you , Voltemand . Your business in Norway will be limited to this task . Now good - bye . Show your loyalty by leaving quickly , rather than with elaborate speeches .
Such exercise ! My lord is so heavy ! Our strength has all turned into sadness . That 's what makes the weight . If I had the goddess Juno 's power , I would make the strong - winged messenger , Mercury , pick you up and seat you beside Jove . Up just a little more -- wishes are always foolish -- oh , come on , come on , come on !
I could rhyme like that for eight years in a row , excepting meal times and sleeping hours . That awful , plodding rhyme sounded like a row of dairy women stomping off to market .
How are you doing , Stephano ?
You convinced the jeweler to arrest me .
I 'm old . I 'm old .
The king has done him a bad turn . That 's all there is to it .
Then I guess beggars are the ones with bodies , while ambitious kings and heroes are just the shadows of beggars . Should we go inside ? I seem to be losing my mind a bit .
Bring out the stocks ! I swear on my life and honor , he 'll sit here in the stocks until noon .
What 's that ? The highest - ranking ? What would the King of Naples do if he heard you say that ?
For God 's sake , let me hear it .
Who 's there ? Othello ?
What 's your name ?
Tut , tut , you 've become rather icy . Your friendliness toward me seems to be freezing over . Tell me , do I have your consent to kill them ?
Whatever happens to me , this is a soldier 's kiss . It would be shameful to draw out our good - byes . I 'll leave you without revealing any emotion , like a man of steel . Anyone who wants to fight , follow me now , and I 'll see you get your wish . Good - bye .
Sir , the Turks sailed to Rhodes , where they joined with another fleet .
These reports are inconsistent . You ca n't trust them .
It 's good you hunted for yourself , sir . It 's rumored that your deer holds you at bay .
" De neck , " madam .
Not if you go away , there is n't .
Nothing but darkness and horror . Where 's my son Edmund ? Edmund , let your love for me ignite your bloodlust to avenge this horrible crime !
He said " Goodbye , madam , " and nothing else .
Signior Lucentio , this is the day appointed for Katherine and Petruchio 's wedding , but there 's no sign of the groom . What will people say ? To have the priest right here , ready to perform the marriage ceremony , and be missing a bridegroom ! What do you think about our humiliation , Lucentio ?
His speech was like a tangled chain . It went on and on and was a total mess . Who 's next ?
What I say is true . And if this were a fitting place , I 'd prove it .
My lord , my lord .
Mowbray , you 're out of line to think that . His offer is made out of mercy , not fear . Just look , you can see our army from here . I give you my word of honor : that army is so confident , it wo n't even allow the thought of fear to enter . Our army has more important people than yours , and better soldiers ; our armor is every bit as strong as yours , and our cause is better . It 's only logical that we should be as courageous as you are . So do n't say you 've forced the Prince to do anything at all .
Good madam , restrain yourself . The man has n't done anything wrong .
My royal lord , you 're not entertaining the guests . If you do n't make your guests know they 're welcome , they 'll feel like they 're paying for their meal . When you just want to eat , it 's better to do that at home . When you 're eating out with people , you need to have a little more ceremony . Otherwise dinner parties would be boring .
You , ladies , whose gentle hearts make you afraid of the smallest monstrous mouse that crawls around on the floor , might quake and tremble now when the wild lion roars in his most violent rage . You should know that I , Snug the carpenter , am not a fierce lion or a lioness , because if I were a lion and I showed up here to cause trouble , I 'd be taking my life in my hands .
Please , listen to me .
Hey , Cassio !
It makes me very happy to hear he 's so interested . Gentlemen , please try to sharpen his interest even more , and let this play do him some good .
And after that he came back here looking so serious ?
shifts , friends , to Southampton . That 's where you must pretend the theater is ; that 's where you must sit . From there we 'll safely carry you to France and back , calming the waters of the Channel to provide you with a smooth voyage . For if we can help it , we 'd just as soon nobody was made sick by our play . But we wo n't shift the scene to Southampton until Henry reappears .
As long as that ? Well , in that case these mourning clothes can go to hell . I 'll get myself a fur-trimmed suit . Good heavens , he died two months ago and has n't been forgotten yet ? In that case , there 's reason to hope a man 's memory may outlive him by six months . But he 's got to build churches for that to happen , my lady , or else he 'll have to put up with being forgotten , like the hobby - horse in the popular song that goes , " Heigh-ho , heigh-ho , the hobby - horse is forgotten . "
A better life than you . I 'm a gentleman and you 're just a drawer .
Here he comes . --Health to you , my king .
That 's correct . But the King has pulled together the best men in the country : the Prince of Wales , Lord John of Lancaster , the noble Westmoreland , warlike Blunt , and many other acquaintances and valuable men of good reputation , with great skill in battle .
When you get a good look at him , you see he 's not much of a monster . I ca n't believe I was scared of him ! A pretty pathetic monster . The man in the moon ! What a poor , gullible monster . --That was a nice big gulp , monster !
Yes , Laertes , sir .
Will you come with me to hear this news , sir ?
Yes she has , and by keeping celibate , she wastes her beauty . If you starve yourself of sex you ca n't ever have children , and so your beauty is lost to future generations . She 's too beautiful and too wise to deserve heaven 's blessing by making me despair . She 's sworn off love , and that promise has left me alive but dead , living only to talk about it now .
Why did you send me out , brave Cassius ? Did n't I meet up with your allies ? And did n't they place the wreath of victory on my brow and order me to give it to you ? Did n't you hear their shouts ? Alas , you misunderstood everything ! But let me place this wreath on your head . Your Brutus ordered me to give it to you , and I 'll do what he says . Brutus , come this way and see how much I admired Caius Cassius . With your permission , gods , this is a Roman 's duty . Come , Cassius 's sword , and strike Titinius 's heart .
Not at all , Touchstone . The good manners of the court look as silly in the country as country behavior is laughable at the court . You told me that you do n't salute at the court but kiss hands . Now , if courtiers were shepherds , that kind of courtesy would be unclean .
You love me in spite of your heart , I think . If you spite your heart for my sake , then I will spite it for yours . I will never love the thing my friend hates .
Father , he 's always talked about love in an honorable fashion --
Who 's calling ?
Hurry up . The hour of death is approaching .
Now I see that you ca n't call anything good except in right context . I think that music sounds much better at night than it does during the day .
person when you 're ready , if you 're inclined . I 'll wait patiently . Meanwhile I 'll stay with Regan with my hundred knights .
In bed with her ? On top of her ? I would have thought people were telling lies about her rather than believe he was lying on her . My God , it 's nauseating ! Handkerchief -- confessions -- handkerchief ! I 'll kill him first , and then let him confess --I 'm trembling with rage . I would n't be trembling like this if I did n't know deep down this was all true . Noses , ears , lips . Is it possible ? Tell me the truth --Handkerchief --Damn it !
Lady , did you sleep in her room last night ?
Oh , on my soul , my cousin has been slandered falsely !
Why ? Does the King only have twenty-five thousand men ?
We 'll be happy as crickets , my lad . But listen , what 's with this gag you played on the waiter ? What 's the point ?
And a true lover of the holy Church .
Tennis balls , my liege .
Fortuneteller !
And I 'll match that with " Give the devil his due . "
If you 're the Romeo I 'm looking for , sir , I would like to have a confidence with you .
There you go .
but I 'm not sure . I do n't know where I am . I do n't remember these clothes . I ca n't recall where I slept last night . Do n't laugh at me , but I swear I think this lady is my child Cordelia .
I 'll do whatever you say , as long as I can do it with a clear conscience .
Why are we keeping quiet ? The two of us have the most to say in this matter .
away ! Get out of my sight ! --I guess if she does n't love her father , then I 'll only have peace when I 'm dead . --Call the King of France . Why is nobody doing anything ? Call the Duke of Burgundy .
How many more years of your apprenticeship do you have , Francis ?
I beg your pardon .
Go on , my loving lord .
Our wedding day is almost here , my beautiful Hippolyta . We 'll be getting married in four days , on the day of the new moon . But it seems to me that the days are passing too slowly -- the old moon is taking too long to fade away ! That old , slow moon is keeping me from getting what I want , just like an old widow makes her stepson wait to get his inheritance .
Do you see this , oh , God ?
They probably received warning about how much I stirred up the people . Take me to Octavius .
Why are we talking about this ?
I 'm sure you do .
Is it impossible to escape your mighty arm ?
Who 's your lord ?
I guess none except Humphrey Hour , who once invited you to have breakfast without me . If I be such a disgrace in your eyes , let me march on and not offend you . Strike up the band !
Since the wall is conscious , it should curse back at him .
Well , we 'll speak more soon . Is King Edward coming out ?
Beatrice - -
Tomorrow , then , we will wait on your Grace . Now we 'll take our leave -- joyfully .
Yes , my lord . Bellario sends his greetings .
I hope what she 's saying is well , sir !
Has he been whipped ?
But since you 're his scoundrel servant , I will .
But surely you 're not planning to marry her in what you 're wearing !
Dear gods in heaven , what 's the reason for this ?
I owe you nothing until I receive the necklace .
Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much I love her .
What did you do that for ?
Oh my lord , the Duke of Cornwall 's dead . He was killed by his servant as he about to gouge out Glouces-ter 's other eye .
What crimes happen so early in the morning that I have to wake up before the usual time ?
Throw him down the stairs ? Do n't we know a common prostitute when we see one ?
But the king did n't kill him .
All the rumors have been confirmed .
Where 's your master ?
Are you thinking of buying her ? Is that why you 're asking ?
I will live the way birds do , Mother .
Rulers abuse their power when they separate it from compassion . To be honest , I 've never known Caesar to let his emotions get the better of his reason . But everyone knows that an ambitious young man uses humility to advance himself , but when he reaches the top , he turns his back on his supporters and reaches for the skies while scorning those who helped him get where he is . Caesar might act like that . Therefore , in case he does , we must hold him back . And since our quarrel is with his future behavior , not what he does now , I must frame the argument like this : if his position is furthered , his character will fulfill these predictions . And therefore we should liken him to a serpent 's egg -- once it has hatched , it becomes dangerous , like all serpents . Thus we must kill him while he 's still in the shell .
I found it in my room , and Iago just confessed that he put it there for his own purposes .
Read it .
Run after that obnoxious messenger , the duke 's servant . He insisted on leaving this ring with me whether I wanted it or not . Tell him I want nothing to do with it . Ask him not to encourage Orsino or to get his hopes up . I 'm not for him . If that young man comes here again tomorrow , I 'll tell him why . Hurry , Malvolio .
Now look what you 've done . You 've heard something you should n't have .
Truly , lady , I think your description is correct , though I swear he has no reason to look like that . Here , Claudio , I 've wooed Hero for you , and she 's agreed to marry you . I 've told her father , and he 's given his permission . Tell us when you wish to get married , and may God give you joy .
My good man Norfolk , hurry to your post . Be careful whom you choose as guards -- make sure they 're trustworthy .
Do you plan on getting married tomorrow ?
The three who share the known world are aboard your boat . Let me cut the anchor cable . When we are away from land , cut their throats . Everything that belongs to them is yours .
Listen , Yedward . If I stay home and do n't go , I 'll hang you -- for going .
Are you his friend ?
Unless my feelings change very soon , I have to admit it 's true .
I wo n't sleep until I 've delivered your letter , my lord .
What 's this all about ?
The clock struck three .
I 'll tell you . I 'm ashamed that you have the power to upset me like this , as though you 're worth the tears you 're making me shed . Damn you ! May you feel every pain a father 's curse can bring ! If I cry again because of you , I 'll rip my eyes out of their sockets and throw them and their wet tears down to moisten the earth . Has it come to this ? Then so be it . I have one more daughter who I 'm sure is kind . When
Why , I killed Percy myself and I saw you dead .
Come on , we ca n't do that . I wonder how -- being the great leaders you are -- you cannot see the problems we 're facing . My cousin has yet to arrive with his horses , and your Uncle Worcester 's troops only arrived today . Their spirit and their bravery is asleep ; their courage is dulled and tamed by the hard journey . They do n't have even a quarter of their usual strength .
No , do n't press up against me . Stand further away .
You 're naughty . I 'm watching the play .
Wo n't King Richard let me speak with him ?
I 'm fine , my lord .
When we 're properly dressed for the cold , let 's meet and discuss this bloody crime to see if we can figure anything out . Right now we 're shaken up by fears and doubts . I 'm putting myself in God 's hands , and with his help I plan to fight against the secret plot that caused this treasonous murder .
It does indeed .
Thank you . Guard the door . Oh , you vile king , give me my father !
Everything would be produced without labor , and would be shared by all . There 'd be no treason , crimes , or weapons . Nature would produce its harvests in abundance , to feed my innocent people .
You should have reprimanded him for that .
I 'd build myself a sad little cabin near your house , where my soul 's imprisoned . From that cabin I 'd call out to my soul . I 'd write sad songs about unrequited love and sing them loudly in the middle of the night . I 'd shout your name to the hills and make the air echo with your name , " Olivia ! " Oh , you would n't be able to go anywhere without feeling sorry for me .
I thought your heart had been wounded by a lion 's claws .
The more fool you for betting on my loyalty .
Whether it 's even or odd , of all the days in the year , on the night of Lammas Eve , she 'll be fourteen . She and Susan --God rest her and all Christian souls -- were born on the same day . Well , Susan died and is with God . She was too good for me . But like I said , on the night of Lammas Eve , she will be fourteen . Yes , she will . Indeed , I remember it well . It 's been eleven years since the earthquake . She stopped nursing from my breast on that very day . I 'll never forget it . I had put bitter wormwood on my breast as I was sitting in the sun , under the wall of the dovehouse . You and your husband were in Mantua . Boy , do I have some memory ! But like I said , when she tasted the bitter wormwood on my nipple , the pretty little babe got irritated and started to quarrel with my breast . Then the dovehouse shook with the earthquake . There was no need to tell me to get out of there . That was eleven years ago . By then she could stand up all by herself . No , I swear , by that time she could run and waddle all around . I remember because she had cut her forehead just the day before . My husband --God rest his soul , he was a happy man -- picked up the child . " Oh , " he said , " Did you fall on your face ? You 'll fall backward when you grow smarter . Wo n't you , Jule . " And I swear , the poor pretty thing stopped crying and said , " Yes . " Oh , to watch a joke come true ! I bet if I live a thousand years , I 'll never forget it . " Wo n't you , Jule , " he said . And the pretty fool stopped crying and said , " Yes . "
Give her a kiss from me , her true love . And so , goodbye .
If I could make things better by lying , I 'd deny it . But you see my finger does n't have the ring on it . It 's gone .
Who 's the one who 's going out the door right now ?
Oh , listen to me , night --
Pish !
Swear !
If it pleases you , your highness , will you lead us all inside ?
Sir , she works in the kitchen , so she 's oily . The only thing I could do with her is to use all that oil as fuel in a lamp and then use that light to run away by . Her
I think you 're more articulate .
It could cost some of us our lives : he 'll stab .
Yes , my lord .
But it shows that something has already happened .
We know you have a job to do , Brakenbury , and we 'll do what you say .
I 'll make her come right away , I promise you .
He 'll never agree to that .
And he challenged you to a duel ?
Heaven help you !
The carriages , sir , are the hangers -- where the swords hang .
What , my lord ?
That he felt for me the love that I begged him to feel for you .
My clever spirit !
Oh , sure . When an hour meets a cop , it turns and runs in fear .
Yes , as good as any man in Illyria , except for the ones who are better at it than I am . I 'm not as good as someone who 's been dancing for years .
Hello !
Try to remember how you might have offended him , and try to avoid spending time with him until his anger has cooled a little . Right now he 's so angry that even if he harmed you physically , he 'd still be raging .
I 'll tell him , my lord .
I will not be quiet ! I have to speak . My mistress here lies murdered in her bed --
Humble greetings , great master ! Worthy sir , greetings ! Your wish is my command , whatever you want . If you want me to fly , to swim , to jump into fire , to ride the clouds in the sky , Ariel will get right to the task .
Tell me what you want .
Come on , let me wipe your face .
You 've said it , friend , and farewell to you .
Come here , Ventidius . You must go to Parthia . Your authorization is ready . Come with me and I 'll get it for you .
Let 's speak to him .
What , man ? It 's not that long , it 's not that long . It 's been since Lucentio 's wedding . Let the years fly by as fast as they like , it 's only been twenty-five years since we wore masks .
Were you listening to these verses ?
Does anyone hate something and not want to kill it ?
No , I swear , I do n't even know what 's in it . Phoebe wrote it .
Madam , oh , good Empress !
That 's not good .
You 're really keeping up with me !
God , give her even less joy , I beg you ! Elizabeth , your honor , your high rank , and your position as queen are all owed to me .
Yes , he killed himself because he thought we 'd lost the whole battle . Sadness , which misconstrues reality , gave birth to his errors in thinking -- and then destroyed him .
Look how flushed the actor is , with tears in his eyes . All right , that 's enough , please .
Very nice to see you , sir . Welcome to Cyprus .
I sneeze on your manhood . Ha !
Is he really married ?
Take this mad wretch to jail . - - Father - in - law Baptista , will you see that he 's available to appear in court ?
That 's great . And I have met a gentleman who promises to help me find a good music tutor to instruct our lady love . I would n't want to fall behind in my devotion to my beloved Bianca .
You 're pale?- -Get Cassio out of here . --You look awfully pale , Bianca .
This news will comfort Cassius .
My lord , you know I 'm your friend .
What , the necklace ?
Why are you talking at such a crazy clip ?
This island contains everything beneficial to life .
Master Silence . Your name suits a justice of " the peace . "
I will , lady .
For God 's sake , gentlemen ; take my queen away from here . The floodgates of her eyes are being overwhelmed by her tears .
Which one of you is the lady of the house ?
I 've practiced Stoicism with as much devotion as you , but I still could n't bear this news like you do .
Sirs , take up the corpse .
Get up . Somebody 's knocking . Hide yourself , good Romeo .
Go back to bed . It is n't daybreak yet . Is tomorrow the 15th of March , boy ?
No , not at all .
Just a second !
You coward , are you bragging to the stars and telling the bushes that you want a fight , but then you wo n't come and fight me ? Come here , you coward ! Come here , you child ! I 'll beat you with a stick . It would be shameful to fight you with a sword , the way I would fight with a real man .
You are nothing like Mark Antony ! But since you come from him , you 're saturated with his healing spirit . How does it go with my magnificent Mark Antony ?
Please , I beg you --
I know that , sir . Imagine , me , a drunk !
Montjoy .
What an annoying man , this guy is !
Hey , Brabantio ! Signor Brabantio , hey !
If that 's a joke , I guess the rest was , too .
It 's a whore like all the others , stinking of cheap perfume . --Why are you always hanging around me ?
Good King of Cats , I want to take one of your nine lives . I 'll take one , and , depending on how you treat me after that , I might beat the other eight out of you too . Will you pull your sword out of its sheath ? Hurry up , or I 'll smack you on the ears with my sword before you have yours drawn .
I hope you sleep peacefully . I wish I were Sleep and Peace , so I could spend the night with you . Now I 'll go see my priest , to ask for his help and tell him about my good luck .
Then learn this from me : if you have something , you have it . Everyone knows that when you pour a drink out of a cup and into a glass , the cup becomes empty . And all the authorities know that ipse is Latin for " he . " You are no longer ipse , because I am he .
No one here is affected by your curse , because curses are just words with no power .
We charge you , in the Prince 's name , to stop !
That 's what I 'm doing -- only it 's my heart that 's being hunted . Oh , when I first saw Olivia , it seemed like she made the air around her sweeter and purer . In that instant I was transformed into a hart , and my desire for her has hounded me like a pack of vicious dogs .
Yes , ma'am , we have .
Come on , let 's put him in a dark room and tie him up . My niece already thinks he 's insane . We can go on like this , punishing him and having some fun , until we 're tired of it . Then we can take mercy on him and let him out , and talk about how well the joke went . We 'll also worship you for setting up this trick . Let 's do it , let 's do it !
From their saddles into the dirt -- but that 's another story .
See how my ring encircles your finger ? That 's how your heart embraces my poor heart . Wear both the ring and my heart , because both are yours . And if I , your poor devoted servant , may ask you for one small favor , you will guarantee my happiness forever .
Yes , right away .
A virtuous young woman , the daughter of a count who died last year . Her brother had custody of her for a while , but then he died too . They say she 's totally sworn off men now , in memory of her brother .
What a man , young lady . He 's as great a man as any in the whole world . He 's as perfect as if he were sculpted from wax .
And good evening to you , sir .
Show .
What heathen is that ?
You talk as though you have permission to break the law . But act appropriately to your status : satisfy this poor woman .
What , are you busy ? Do you need my help ?
Lucillius , you do the same , and do n't allow anyone to come into our tent until we 've finished our conference . Have Lucius and Titinius guard the door .
I doubt it .
I 'll try to make myself worth your knowledge .
To Dover .
On a night like this , Jessica ran away from the wealthy Jew and stole his money . She ran away from Venice all the way to Belmont with her spendthrift lover .
I wo n't exhaust you anymore with idle chitchat . You should know that I think you 're a smart man . I really mean it . I 'm not telling you this so you 'll think well of me And I 'm not trying to enhance my own reputation , but only to do you good . Believe me , then , that I have special powers . Since I was three years old , I 've been in contact with a powerful but virtuous magician -- no black magic here . If you love Rosalind as much as you say you do , you will marry her when your brother marries Aliena . I know where she is and , if you do n't mind , I will set her before you tomorrow , whole and unharmed .
Be quiet and depart . You 're not going to take him .
To cut my penalty from that bankrupt man over there .
Count Claudio , when do you plan to go to church and be married ?
Well , I think that even if it were n't on record , the truth would be remembered from one generation to the next -- all the way to Doomsday .
I 'm completely dumbfounded by what you 're saying . I 'm not insulting you . It sounds more like you 're insulting me .
Please find a way to give me some time alone with Desdemona , if you think that 's all right .
If only my prayers could inspire that kind of affection !
My services are at your command .
I swear I will --
Before you can say " Come " and " Go , " And breathe twice , and shout " So , so ! " Each one of your servants will rush here ,
You 're taking this too far . I 'd rather think about his absence this way : it makes us look even better . It makes our great undertaking seem even more daring than it would if Northumberland were here . People will think that if we can raise an army against the King without my father , that once he joins we 'll turn the whole kingdom upside down . Everything is fine , we 're all in one piece .
My Lord of Buckingham , if my weak skills of persuasion convince his mother to part with the duke of York , you can expect him here shortly . But if she resists my mild pleas , let God in heaven forbid us from disobeying the holy laws of the sanctuary and taking the child from her . I would n't commit so serious a crime for anything .
That 's all .
Will you please come now , my lord ?
I ca n't conceive of what you mean .
Hey , if I lay down my " stake , " I 'll never be able to have a son . But who 's this coming ? Lorenzo and his pagan girlfriend ? What , and my old Venetian friend Salerio ?
I would , my boy . I ask too much of you , but you 're always willing .
My sweet husband , I did not lock you out .
There 's no nicer guy in the whole world . I saw Bassanio and Antonio say goodbye . Bassanio told him he 'd try to hurry back . Antonio answered " Do n't rush . Do n't do a sloppy job for my sake , Bassanio . Stay until everything is finished . As for the Jew 's contract , do n't let it be a factor in your plans . Be happy and concentrate your thoughts on love and how to win your love . " Then his eyes started tearing up . He turned his face away . Then he shook Bassanio 's hand affectionately -- and they separated .
It will likely be a bloody fight . Goodbye , sir .
Good morning , Prince ; good morning , Claudio . We 're waiting here for you . Are you still set on marrying my brother 's daughter ?
For a full half hour .
Caesar , I never believed in omens , but now they frighten me . A servant told me the night - watchmen saw horrid sights too , but different ones from what we heard and saw . A lioness gave birth in the streets , and graves cracked open and thrust out their dead .
It is an honor that I do not dream of .
Fine , I swear I wo n't ever get married if I choose incorrectly . Let me take my chances .
Take that , and that . If this wo n't do the job , I 'll drown you in the wine barrel in the next room .
You know , you 're right . It 's a measly little cap , a dessert crust , a plaything , a silk pie . I love you all the more for not liking it .
Growing crops and large harvests , Barns and silos full of grain , Vines heavy with clustered grapes , Plants straining under their fruit -- May spring follow directly autumn 's harvest , With none of winter 's hardships to endure , You will have plenty and want nothing , Ceres 's blessings on you .
Nothing , Messala .
And you , sister ?
Sir , sir , calm down . I 'm so amazed by this , I do n't know what to say .
But tell me , monsieur -- what sport are the ladies missing ?
I do n't know , sir .
So do all thoughts . They have wings .
Oh , damn , damn , damn !
Then go find him . Meanwhile , play the tune .
He is n't really that pure and good . He 's just a conceited flatterer . He 's a pretentious guy who aspires to speak and act like nobility . He 's proud , and he thinks he 's so stuffed full of wonderful qualities that everyone loves him . That 's the weakness I 'll use to get revenge on him .
Be friends , you English fools , be friends : we have enough enemies on the French side , if either of you could count .
Has anybody seen the Duke of Clarence ?
This is my treasurer . My lord , he will swear on his life that I have n't kept a thing . --Tell the truth , Seleucus .
Give me your hand . You 're now within a foot of the cliff 's edge . I would n't try to jump up and down here for anything on earth .
We heard everything . --My lord , do whatever you like , but if you like this idea , let his mother the queen get him alone and beg him to share his feelings with her . I 'll hide and listen in . If she ca n't find out what his secret is , then send him off to England or wherever you think best .
You do n't love me .
Show him in . Call in my maid .
He answered that question straight .
It 's no use ! Pray for your lives ! We 're done for !
Master , I 'm all tied up for you .
He saved me the trouble : here he comes .
I 'll be gentle and mild .
But that would ruin his reputation !
How many men in the King 's army ?
But there 's reason for me to look more closely at this schoolmaster . He acts like a man in love . But if Bianca is so vulgar as to stoop for any man she sees , the hell with her . Whoever wants her can have her . The first time I catch her straying , it 's over . End of story .
Most radiant Pyramus , you are as white as a lily , and the color of a red rose on a splendid rosebush , a very lively young man and also a lovely Jew . You are as reliable as a horse that never gets tired . I 'll meet you , Pyramus , at Ninny 's grave .
Benvolio is part of the Montague family . His loyalties to the Montagues make him tell lies . He 's not telling the truth . There were twenty Montagues fighting in this awful riot , and together those twenty could only kill one man . I demand justice . You , Prince , are the man who can give me justice . Romeo killed Tybalt . Romeo must die .
Quiet there !
Will you come on , cousin ?
Lord Mortimer , and kinsman Glendower , wo n't you please sit ? And Uncle Worcester --Dammit ! I forgot the map !
Holy Franciscan Friar ! Brother , hey !
The feed here 's as damp as anything . That 's a fast way for a horse to get parasites . This stable 's upside down since Ostler Robin died .
Lord , he seems to be getting paler by the minute . I think he really is angry .
Good Archbishop , let 's have both our troops march past us here so that we can see the men we would have fought against .
My lord , I have news for you . When Roscius was an actor in ancient Rome --
Me too . I remember when I was in love , I broke my sword on a stone , and told him to take that for coming at night to see Jane Smile . I remember kissing her washing stick and the cow 's udders that her pretty , chapped hands had milked . I remember wooing a pea plant in her name , and then taking two pea pods and begging her to wear them " for my sake . " Those of us who are really in love will do the strangest things . But everything that lives is mortal , including the foolishness of love .
And I say that if you think the earth shook because it was afraid of you , then the earth and I do not agree .
" M. O.A. I. rules my life . " Hmm , let me see , let me see , let me see .
Quiet . God knows I loved my niece , and now she 's dead -- slandered to death by cowards who would just as likely fight a real man as I would grab a poisonous snake by the tongue . Boys , fools , braggers , scoundrels , babies !
But you were with him , were n't you ?
I can only do it by lying , my lord , but I can do it so secretly that no one will suspect me .
To Adriana ? That 's where we had lunch . Where that " sweetheart " said I was her husband ! She 's too much for me to handle . But I must go there , against my will : servants must fulfill their masters ' wishes .
Our guiding light is out .
Why , Dromio ?
Should I listen for more , or should I speak now ?
It gives us a refuge , a home we can always run to , in case the devil or misfortune ruins these early plans .
What my lord said I was .
I 'd like to be like that famous pimp , Lord Pandarus , and get a Cressida for my Troilus .
You 'll have to leave this room and come with us . You 're stripped of your power and your command , and Cassio will govern Cyprus . As for this slave , Iago , if we can think of any torture that will hurt him a lot but keep him alive a long time , he 'll have it . You 'll remain a prisoner until we bring your crimes to the Venetian government . --Okay , take him away .
He what ?
But wait , what 's that light in the window over there ? It is the east , and Juliet is the sun . Rise up , beautiful sun , and kill the jealous moon . The moon is already sick and pale with grief because you , Juliet , her maid , are more beautiful than she . Do n't be her maid , because she is jealous . Virginity makes her look sick and green . Only fools hold on to their virginity . Let it go . Oh , there 's my lady ! Oh , it is my love . Oh , I wish she knew how much I love her . She 's talking , but she 's not saying anything . So what ? Her eyes are saying something . I will answer them . I am too bold . She 's not talking to me . Two of the brightest stars in the whole sky had to go away on business , and they 're asking her eyes to twinkle in their places until they return . What if her eyes were in the sky and the stars were in her head?- -The brightness of her cheeks would outshine the stars the way the sun outshines a lamp . If her eyes were in the night sky , they would shine so brightly through space that birds would start singing , thinking her light was the light of day . Look how she leans her hand on her cheek . Oh , I wish I was the glove on that hand so that I could touch that cheek .
Who does n't know he 's dead ? Who says he is ?
No , gentle madam .
Punish me if it 's not true . Three miles from here you can see it coming , a moving forest .
We want to hear the will . Read it , Mark Antony .
He 's giving her a taste of her own medicine .
Well , now you are only allowed to speak well of Sir John Falstaff , which goes against the nature of a man of your quality .
Well , learn to make jokes at the appropriate time . There 's a time for all things .
I hear my father coming . Forgive me . I have to pretend to threaten you with my sword . Draw your sword too , as if you 're defending yourself . Be convincing . Give up ! Go see my father . --Bring in some light ! Run , brother . Torches , bring in the torches ! Goodbye , then .
I do n't really understand what you mean . Will you play this recorder ?
You , fetch logs that are drier than these . Call Peter , he 'll show you where they are .
If he does n't fall in love with her now , I 'll never trust my intuition again .
My lord wants to speak . It 's my duty to be quiet .
Your husband .
Is n't there any other rite you can perform ?
Sweet flower , I 'm spreading flowers over your bridal bed . Oh , pain ! Your canopy is dust and stones . I 'll water these flowers every night with sweet water . Or , if I do n't do that , my nightly rituals to remember you will be to put flowers on your grave and weep .
Well , then my pump is well decorated with flowers .
Come , come . You know I gave it to you just now . Send the necklace to her , or send me with a token that will authorize her to pay me .
I did n't think Master Silence had this in him .
All right , all right . I wo n't play the fool anymore and just cry while my husband and his man laugh at me . Come , husband , let 's go to lunch . Dromio , guard the door . Husband , I 'll eat with you in private today and hear your confession about all the pranks you 've pulled . Sirrah , if anyone asks where your master is , say he 's out to lunch , and do n't let anyone come in . Come , sister . Dromio , do a good job as doorkeeper .
Chop off his head . Whatever we decide to do . And when I 'm king , remember to ask me for the earldom of Hereford and all the possessions that go with it , which my brother the king used to own .
Here 's the hut , my lord . Please go inside . The night 's too rough for humans to bear .
Hold your peace . I know their kind , I know them exactly . They 're petulant , disrespectful , fashion - crazy boys who lie and cheat and mock , defame and slander . They walk around in outlandish outfits , pretending to be brave and wild and saying a few inflammatory things about how they 'll hurt their enemies -- and that 's all they do .
I 'm glad to see you 're well , Master Robert Shallow . And this is Master Surecard , is n't it ?
This feather moved because of her breath . She 's alive . If that 's true , it makes up for all the sorrows I 've ever known .
The queen your mother is upset , and sent me to see you .
Please tell him that his income is nothing , now that he 's given his lands away . He wo n't believe a fool .
Here 's more news .
I 've never regretted doing good , and I do n't now . Friends who spend a lot of time together and really care equally for each other must have many traits in common . Since Antonio 's my husband 's best friend , they must be very similar men . In that case , the money I 've sent is a small price to pay to rescue someone who resembles my Bassanio , who 's like my own soul . --Anyway , let 's change the subject , since I feel like I 'm starting to flatter myself . I have a favor to ask of you . Lorenzo , please take charge of the management of my house until my husband comes back .
Bassanio , we 'll say goodbye for now , since you 've found Antonio . But do n't forget , we 're meeting for dinner tonight .
How long ago was that ?
The old man with the two pretty daughters ? Is that the man you want ?
What do you mean , a fat marriage ?
I 'll go look for him --Cassio , stay around here . If he 's in a good mood I 'll mention you again , and do everything I can .
Come , Kate , let 's go to bed . We three are married , but you two are defeated . I was the one who won the wager , though you hit the white . And as the winner here I say good night .
First kiss me , Kate , and then we will .
Well , then it will be dry .
Good evening , Audrey .
Master Malvolio ?
Lovely Beatrice , I thank you for taking the pains to tell me that .
I 'll be right here !
This fight will decide who dies .
You 're both very precious to me . But I understand . You need to leave to take care of your own business .
The sound is going away . But let 's follow it , and then do our dirty work afterward .
No , be quiet , or we 'll screw up the joke .
I never thought I 'd hear you speak again .
Yes , he does .
I will , even if I were king of all kingdoms .
Well , thank God I 'm cured !
will damage your reputation with them -- and under ordinary circumstances it would be unfortunate to have them see you as an ogre . However , this is an extreme situation , and it 's more important to control it than to worry about how you 'll look .
No , sir , I wo n't let you go . Come on , put your sword away , my little soldier . You 're awfully eager to fight . Come on .
Our general , the Prince Lord John of Lancaster , sends greetings and wishes you good health .
Hold on a second . Answer me this , please : where 's the money I gave you ?
Yes , my good lord .
You were better off when you did n't have to care whether she frowned or not . Now you 're a big zero , with no digit in front of it to give it value . I 'm better than you are --I 'm a fool and you 're nothing . Yes , I promise I 'll shut up . That 's what you 're telling me with that expression on your face , even though you do n't say anything . Mum , mum , The man who gives away his crust and his crumbs Will discover that he needs some crumbs back . That guy is an empty pea pod .
Father - in - law , tell her that she and Lady Percy will come with you after us .
Say , what 's the trouble ? If it is n't my old friend Grumio -- and my dear friend Petruchio ! How 's everyone in Verona ?
It 's Antony 's schoolmaster . By sending such an insignificant emissary , Antony shows us how low he has sunk . Not so long ago , he had so many royal supporters that he sent along extra kings as messengers .
My lord , you 've won me over this time . Lord Hastings , will you go with me ?
Good , good , I like that -- it 's only fair ! Very good !
May you choke on any other sentiments like that ! Say , " That splendid Antony . "
Francis !
A friend .
He 's right , and that 's how it is .
I do n't care . I 'd gladly give away three times as much land to any friend who deserved it . But when it comes to negotiating a deal , mark my words : I 'll haggle over the smallest fraction of a hair . Are the agreements drawn up ? Are we ready to leave ?
You mean this is the whole problem , that she is shy and has n't said everything she means to say and do?- -My lord of Burgundy , what do you have to say to this lady ? Love 's not love when it gets mixed up with irrelevant outside matters . Will you marry her ? She herself is as valuable as any dowry could ever be .
Clever lies .
Indeed , Sir John , you said so .
No , sir , worse off .
Quiet . Stay still .
You two are totally different . Your flesh is more different from hers than coal is from ivory . There 's more difference between your bloods than between red wine and white . But tell us , did you hear anything about Antonio 's loss at sea ?
No , actually . She dropped it carelessly , and , seizing the opportunity , since I was here , I picked it up . Look , here it is .
Look how politely it 's pointing you to a place that 's farther away . But do n't go .
But he still wo n't turn over his prisoners unless he can add these stipulations and exceptions . He wants me , at my own cost , to pay ransom for his brother - in - law , the foolish Mortimer , a man who , on my life , willfully betrayed his own men , whom he had led in fighting against that great magician , the damned Glendower . And now we hear that Mortimer has married Glendower 's daughter ! Should the treasury be emptied to ransom a traitor ? Should I pay for treason , and bargain for a coward , when it was Mortimer who lost himself ? No. Let him starve in the wilderness . No man who asks me to spend one penny on that traitor Mortimer can ever be a friend of mine .
I swear I have cleansed my heart of all hate . With this handshake , I guarantee my love .
Trinculo , watch out . If you interrupt this monster with one more word , I 'll beat you like a piece of salted fish .
Cassio had sex with her . Ask your husband if you doubt me . If I did n't have a good reason to do this , damn me to the very bottom of hell . Your husband knew about everything .
It 's sad . Love looks like a nice thing , but it 's actually very rough when you experience it .
Just come again tomorrow . Good - bye . A devil like you could lead me to hell .
Women are lucky , then . You would make a nasty suitor . Thankfully , I feel the same way you do . I have no need for romance . I would rather listen to my dog bark at a crow than hear a man swear that he loves me .
This chatter is no cure for my toothache . Old sir , please walk with me a bit . I have eight or nine well-considered words to say to you , and I do n't want these fools to hear .
What is that bloody knife ?
No , my lord .
What do the priests say ?
You 'll be free as a bird . But you have to do exactly what I order .
What other rites are you going to give her ?
What did he say when he regained consciousness ?
Excuse me , my lord ?
To me it looks like a weasel .
No , sir , but there 's something about your face that makes me want to serve you .
I see she 's likely to have neither cap nor gown .
Yes , I am .
Four o'clock in the morning .
Later with that ! You want me to be your stable boy ?
Crooks !
This is the man . Do your job .
By Jupiter 's wife Juno , I swear " Yes . "
The last thing he did before sending me off , dear Queen , was to kiss -- the last of many such kisses -- this Indian pearl for you .
Catesby .
What is it , Bardolph ?
Anyone who has a house to cover his head has a good head on his shoulders . The guy who finds a place to put his penis Before he has a house of his own Will wind up dirt poor and covered with lice
Are you asleep or awake , happy shepherd ? Your sheep are running around the cornfield . But if you blow your cute little horn , Your sheep will be fine . Purr ! The devil - cat is gray .
I am resolved -- to let him live .
That 's true , lieutenant .
Maybe you should ask , what will you do for a husband ?
What 's up , Grumio ?
Sad , my lady ! I could be sad if I wanted to be . These crisscrossing laces do cut off the circulation in my legs a bit , but who cares ? As the sonnet says , " If you please one special person , you please everyone who matters . "
No , be reasonable . We do n't have any proof yet . She might still be faithful . Just tell me this : have you ever seen her holding a handkerchief with an embroidered strawberry pattern on it ?
Oh please , go somewhere else to blab your nonsense . You do n't know me .
In that case I 'll serve you up like a dish of food .
And I 'll speak to you . Step aside , gentlemen .
Oh , how bitter it is that Edward -- the real " true , noble prince " -- should still be alive ! Cousin , you did n't used to be so thickheaded . Shall I put it plainly ? I want the bastards dead . And I want it done right away . What do you say ? Speak now and to the point .
He loves Caesar best , but he also loves Antony . Oh ! No one can describe or fathom Lepidus ' love for Antony ! Hearts cannot think it , tongues cannot speak it , meas-urements cannot calculate it , scribes cannot write it , bards cannot sing it , and poets cannot make verses about it . But when it comes to Caesar , Lepidus ' love approaches the awestruck wonder of a worshipper .
This epitaph will hang here forever , Continuing to praise Hero after I die . Now start the music , and sing the solemn hymn . Please pardon , goddess of the night , The men who killed your virgin knight . These men now walk around her tomb , Singing songs of woe . Oh , midnight , join our moaning Help us with our sighs and groaning Heavily , heavily . Graves , open up and release your corpses Until Hero 's death is fully mourned Heavily , heavily .
Look , come along with us and see the truth for yourself . Our earlier joke has made you understandably suspicious .
Buzz off , buzzard .
My niece would like you to come in to the house , if your business here has to do with her .
Relent ? No. That 's cowardly and womanish .
I do n't think you 've tried to endure it . Being patient has helped me a lot , for I have suffered a loss similar to yours .
Well , let 's move on to our work with the living . What do you think of marching to Philippi immediately ?
By heaven above and below , I 'll have to pawn my good china and the tapestries in my dining rooms .
Keep going , keep going , or I 'll declare myself the winner .
Oh , madam , madam , madam !
Oh father Abraham , what kind of people are these Christians ? Their own meanness teaches them to suspect other people ! --Please tell me this . If he fails to repay me by the deadline , what would I get out of such a penalty ? A pound of human flesh taken is n't even as valuable as a pound of mutton or beef . I 'm just offering this as a favor to a friend . If he agrees , great . If not , goodbye . And I hope you wo n't think badly of me .
What 's your name , sir ? What 's your rank , and where are you from ?
And my poor fool was hanged . -- No , no , no life left ? Why should a dog or horse or rat have life , but not you ? You 'll never come to me again , never , never , never , never , never . --Please help me undo this button . Thank you , sir . Do you see that ? Look at her . Look , her lips . Look there , look there . Oh , oh , oh , oh .
I must get married to my brother 's daughter . Otherwise , my kingdom stands on glass . Murdering her brothers and then marrying her is n't the most foolproof way to secure my position . But I 'm steeped so deep in blood by now that one sin has to follow the next . I have no tears of pity for anyone .
For goodness sake , pretty daughter - in - law . You take me out of myself , reminding me again of these past mistakes . But I must go and face danger there or danger will find me somewhere else , where I will be less prepared .
Come on , open your mouth . This 'll help you talk . Open up . This 'll stop you from trembling --I can tell you that for sure . You do n't even know who your friends are . Open up that mouth again .
A virtuous woman wo n't give her husband horns , and my Rosalind is definitely virtuous .
She wo n't say what she 's feeling , and she ca n't understand her feelings . She 's balanced uneasily , like a feather on the swell of a great wave -- she wo n't move , even though her situation is about to change .
Alright , I will . Let me look at this face . It 's Mercutio 's relative , noble Count Paris ! What did my man say ? I was worried , so I was n't listening to him while we were riding . I think he told me Paris was about to marry Juliet . Is n't that what he said ? Or was I dreaming ? Or am I crazy ? Did I hear him say something about Juliet and jump to conclusions ? Oh , give me your hand . Both of us had such bad luck ! I 'll bury you in a magnificent grave .
Hello there , good sirs .
What 's this ?
Where will we meet in the morning ?
Well , it trots for a young woman between the time she gets engaged and the time she marries : the time that 's passed may only be a week , but it always feels like seven years .
I swear , he 'll be food for the crows soon . The king has broken his heart . Good husband , come home soon .
I thank you all . You wo n't regret this .
Do you want to get married , fool ?
Let me see . Oh , poor Yorick ! I used to know him , Horatio -- a very funny guy , and with an excellent imagination . He carried me on his back a thousand times , and now -- how terrible -- this is him . It makes my stomach turn . I do n't know how many times I kissed the lips that used to be right here . Where are your jokes now ? Your pranks ? Your songs ? Your flashes of wit that used to set the whole table laughing ? You do n't make anybody smile now . Are you sad about that ? You need to go to my lady 's room and tell her that no matter how much makeup she slathers on , she 'll end up just like you some day . That 'll make her laugh . Horatio , tell me something .
" So-so " is good , very good , an excellent answer . And then again , it 's not so good , but only so - so . Are you wise ?
Are you indeed ?
We will , my lord .
then I hope I have a life of misery ! Unkindness is powerful , and his unkindness may kill me , but it 'll never destroy my love . I ca n't say " whore . " It makes me sick to say the word even now . I would n't do the thing that would make me a whore for all the money in the world .
And I swear to God he 's very smart .
In other words " important business " made you flex your buttocks .
That 's " Ninus 's grave , " man . And do n't say all of that yet . You 're supposed to say some of it as a reply to Pyramus . You just said all your lines at once , cues and all . --Pyramus , enter . You missed your cue . It 's " never get tired . "
Richard of York , how are you doing , my loving brother ?
No matter . Get on your way and hire those horses . I 'll be with you right away .
Where is that messenger ?
All kinds of people make it a matter of pride to heckle me . No man -- that foolishly assembled lump of clay -- could ever invent something quite as funny as I seem to be to other people . I 'm not only witty on my own , but I bring out wit in other people . Look at the two of us , walking here : I look like a sow that 's smothered all of her baby pigs , except for you . If the Prince sent you to serve me for any other reason than to irritate me , I 'm a fool . You weedy little son of a bitch : you 're so tiny that you should be a decoration on my hat , not a servant at my feet . I 've never had a servant before who was as tiny as a ring stone . But I wo n't set you in a gold or silver ring ; I 'll wrap you in rags and send you back to your master , to be used as a jewel -- that youth , the Prince your master , whose chin is still lacking a beard . Why , I 'll grow a beard in the palm of my hand before he 'll have one that he can shave off his face . And yet , this does n't stop him from claiming that he has a face for royalty . Well , God will give him a beard whenever he chooses to -- there 's not a hair out of place yet . It 's a good thing the Prince 's face is a royal , because a barber will never earn a coin from shaving it . And still , the
There , take it , prince . And if my picture 's in there , then I 'm yours .
It really is good to see you . Come , sit , sit , and sing me a song .
Gentlemen , I hope you are well .
Why should n't she take my hand , father ? How exactly have I offended you ? Just because a senile man with poor judgment calls something an insult does n't necessarily mean it is one .
I 'm afraid that may be the case , madam .
Ah , you 're here?- -Come on , gentlemen , let 's go ! Our masquerade mates are waiting for us .
What are you saying ?
Not young enough to fall in love with a woman because she sings well , but not old enough to dote on a woman for any reason . I 'm forty - eight .
Oh bloody Richard ! Miserable England , I foresee for you the most frightening time you have ever experienced . --Come , lead me to the block . Bring him my head . Those who smile at it will soon be dead themselves .
No , mighty king , do not distrust me .
tearing a poor whore 's clothes in a whorehouse ? Him , a captain ? Let him drop dead , the rogue ! He lives off the moldy food you find in brothels . A captain ? For God 's sake ! Men like him will make the word " captain " as nasty as the word " occupy , " which was a fine word before it got corrupted . Captains had better watch out .
Perhaps you refuse our request out of love for your brother 's son . You do n't want to depose the child . We know how tender your heart is and what gentle , kind , womanly feelings you have for your relatives , as well as for people from all walks of life . But listen , if you wo n't become king , we 'll just get someone else , to the disgrace and ruin of your family . We will not have your brother 's son as king . On this note , we 're leaving . Come , citizens . Damn it , I 'm not going to beg anymore !
" De foot " and " de count " ! Oh , Lord , those are vulgar words -- wicked , ugly , immodest , not fitting for respectable girls to speak . I would not utter those words in the presence of the lords of France for all the world . Ugh ! " Le foot " and " le count " ! Nevertheless , I will recite my lesson one more time all together : " de hand , de fangres , de nails , de arm , de elbow , de nick , de sin , de foot , de coun . "
A man , like you .
He went to Smithfield to buy you a horse , sir .
Why , the same thing would have happened if your mother 's cat had given birth to kittens that day , whether you 'd been born or not .
Very well , ma'am .
No one can stop me now from wailing and weeping about my terrible luck . I do n't care if it kills me . I plan to fall into the blackest despair .
Damn it !
My good Lord Derby , the countess Richmond would hardly say " amen " to your kind words . But do n't worry . I do n't hold it against you , even though she 's your wife , that she 's so unfriendly and arrogant .
Nothing , my lord , or if I did --I do n't know what .
Welcome , Lorenzo and Salerio . I hope my position in this new house is firm enough to allow me the right to welcome my friends . With your permission , Portia , I welcome my good friends and countrymen .
Oh , well . So you do n't love me ?
Father , take pity on him . I 'll guarantee his goodness myself .
Well , sometimes he acts like a goody two shoes .
She 's an exquisitely beautiful lady .
Good night , you amazing woman , you .
What 's she doing now ? Look how she rubs her hands .
You 're lying . Queen Margaret saw your sword steaming with his blood . It was the same sword you almost killed her with -- and you would have killed her if my brothers had n't fought you off .
Here .
Yes , he performed his prologue like a child plays a recorder -- he can make sounds , but they 're out of control .
Beat him up . After a little while , I 'll beat him too .
Great Caesar --
" With a wide sleeve -- "
What did you say , uncle ?
What do you say ? Can you love this gentleman ? Tonight you 'll see him at our feast . Study Paris 's face and find pleasure in his beauty . Examine every line of his features and see how they work together to make him handsome . If you are confused , just look into his eyes . This man is single , and he lacks only a bride to make him perfect and complete . As is right , fish live in the sea , and it 's wrong for a beauty like you to hide from a handsome man like him . Many people think he 's handsome , and whoever becomes his bride will be just as admired . You would share all that he possesses , and by having him , you would lose nothing .
Enough of this . Please be quiet .
Well , the poor man died by your first order , which was carried by a winged messenger . Some tardy cripple must have taken the counter - order , who came after Clarence was already buried . It 's clear that someone less noble , less loyal , more bloody-minded than Clarence but not a blood relation , deserves as bad an end as my brother , but he goes free .
Lady , do you come here to be married to this count ?
Yes , my lord . With pleasure .
Come , let 's continue on toward your father 's house . Good Lord , how bright and splendid is the moon tonight !
I think she 'll be a better soldier . She may be good with firearms . Never lutes .
I see what they 're up to . They want to make an ass of me , to scare me if they can . But I wo n't leave this spot , no matter what they do . I 'll walk up and down and sing a song , so they 'll know I 'm not afraid . The blackbird with its black feathers And its orange - and - tan beak , The thrush with its clear voice , The wren with its small , piping chirp --
It 's filed .
Tell me why , if you can .
Speak plainly . Do n't tone down what the people are saying . Call Cleopatra what the Romans call her . Use Fulvia 's abusive language . Freely scold me for my faults with as much severity as an enemy with truth on his side . It 's easy to err when left to our own devices , but criticism helps us to see our faults and correct them .
By God , I 'd rather be his executioner .
Continue , then , and do n't forget to perform all of the rituals .
It looks more like he fainted . No one ever gave a prayer like that before going to sleep .
Yes , you asked me to call her back . See how well she can turn ? She can turn and turn , and then turn on you again . And she can cry , sir -- oh , how she can cry ! And she 's obedient , as you say , obedient . Very obedient -- keep crying . --Concerning this -- oh , what fake emotion ! --I am being ordered home --Get away from me , I 'll send for you later . --Sir , I 'll obey the order and return to Venice . Get away from me , you witch !
To hell with all worn-out horses , all crazy masters , and all bad roads . Was a man ever beaten as much as me ? Was a man ever as dirty as me ? Was a man ever so tired ? I have been sent on ahead to light a fire , and they are coming after to warm themselves . It 's a good thing I 'm like a little pot and warm up quickly , or else my lips themselves would freeze and stick to my teeth , my tongue to the roof of my mouth , and my heart would freeze in my belly , before I managed to get thawed out . I 'll warm myself by blowing on the fire . A taller man than I would catch cold in weather like this . Hey ! Curtis ! Hello !
How loud that fat rogue screamed !
Very well .
That 's an odd thing to say . How can a tailor make a person ?
And this is the legal professor , I take it . --Let me shake your hand . Did old Bellario send you here ?
Rough workmen from Athens who never spent much time thinking . Now they 've worn out their out-of-shape brains to put on this play for your wedding .
No , my darling , I 'd rather strain all my muscles and break my back than let you do work like this while I lounge around nearby .
What , is the man insane ?
Everyone tries to avoid harm , but the public figure demands even more protection . When a great leader dies he does n't die alone but , like a whirlpool , draws others with him . He 's like a huge wheel on the top of the highest mountain whose spokes touch the rim of ten thousand smaller things -- when it falls down the mountain , every little object goes down with it . Whenever a king sighs , everyone groans .
As you wish , sir .
Not even Shafalus was as faithful to his lover Procrus as I am to you .
Oh pain ! Oh painful , painful , painful day ! The saddest day , most painful day that I ever , ever did behold ! Oh day ! Oh day ! Oh day ! Oh hateful day ! There has never been so black a day as today . Oh painful day , Oh painful day !
Do n't stand there gaping , everyone . It 's true .
I know you do .
No , I think you 're not . I think you 've been excused for that . But there 's another charge against you . You serve flesh in this place , and that 's against the law . You 're going to hell for that .
Go back , slave , or I 'll knock you one across the head .
Be quiet and listen to me . Remember how she fell madly in love with the Moor because he bragged and told her made-up stories ? Did you expect her to keep on loving him for his chattering ? You 're too smart to think that . No , she needs someone nice - looking . Othello 's ugly , what pleasure could she find in him ? Lovemaking gets boring after a while . To keep things hot , she 'll need to see someone with a handsome face , someone close to her in age , someone who looks and acts like her . Othello is n't any of those things . Since he does n't have these advantages to make him attractive to her , she 'll get sick of him until he makes her want to puke . She 'll start looking around for a second choice . Now , if that 's true-- and it 's obviously true -- who 's in a better position than Cassio ? He 's a smooth talker , and uses sophistication and fine manners to hide his lust . Nobody 's as crafty as he is . Besides , he 's young and handsome , and he 's got all the qualities that naive and silly girls go for . He 's a bad boy , and Desdemona 's got her eye on him already .
I should always be wise . Honesty 's stupid , it makes me lose my friends even when I 'm trying to help them .
Where did you hear this ? It 's not true .
A very nasty meaning .
These recent eclipses of the sun and moon do n't bode well for us . Though science can explain them away , disasters still come after eclipses . Love cools off , friendships break up , and brothers become enemies . Riots
Everything 's ready . So tell me what 's been going on .
Not explicitly , but so what ? It would n't hurt you to be charitable .
Are you going to pay the eight shillings I won from you in a bet ?
I think so too . But you 'll see that the very thing that joins them will be the thing that separates them . Octavia has a pious , chaste , meek disposition .
It shall be seven o'clock before I get on my horse . Whatever I say , or think , or do , you 're continually contradicting it . Sirs , never mind . We wo n't go today -- or any day until it 's clear that it shall be whatever time I say it is .
By gum , sir , you will not leave tonight . Hey , Davy !
Oh , Sir John , do you remember the time we spent all night in the windmill in St. George 's field ?
Three thousand ducats for three months , and Antonio will guarantee it .
Sorry , sir ?
Because it will make you angry , and that will get me another beating .
Oh , for God 's sake .
My lord , what I say may be a little confused , since I 'm half asleep and half awake . I swear , at the moment I really could n't tell you how I ended up here . But I think --I want to tell you the truth , and now that I think about it , I think this is true --I came here with Hermia . We were planning to leave Athens to escape the Athenian law and --
What about Stanley ? Wo n't he join us ?
Me afraid of him ? I do n't think so .
Do n't ask to see this letter .
No , no , it 's just a joke , a little jibe but all in good fun . Not offensive at all .
I could always escape shot - free in London , but I 'm scared of getting shot out here . Here , you take it on the head . Wait a minute -- who 's this ? Sir Walter Blunt ! There 's honor for you , but no vanity ! I 'm as hot as molten lead , and as heavy , too ; so God keep the lead out of me . I do n't need any lead bullets in my belly -- my own guts are heavy enough . My army of ragged bums has been massacred . Not even three of my hundred-fifty troops are still alive , and the ones who are have run away , to panhandle in the streets . Who 's coming ?
Tybalt is lying over there .
Actually , it 's not so unusual when you think about it . My uncle is king of Denmark , and the same people who made fun of him while my father was still alive are now rushing to pay twenty , forty , fifty , a hundred ducats apiece for miniature portraits of him . There 's something downright unnatural about it , if a philosopher stopped to think about it .
Come on , Sir John , which four do you want ?
My brother , your uncle Antonio -- just listen to this --My brother whom -- aside from you --I loved more than anyone else in the world , I trusted to run my state , which at that time was the strongest in the land , and Prospero the number one duke , famous for my dignity and my education . Since I was so drawn to studying things like logic , grammar , geometry , and astronomy , I let my control of the government slide a bit , being too wrapped up in my occult books . Your disloyal uncle -- are you paying attention ?
Who among us stabbed him for any cause but justice ? What --did one of us strike down the most powerful man in the world in order to support robbers ? Should we now dirty our fingers with lowly bribes and sell the mighty offices that we hold for whatever money we can get our hands on ? I 'd rather be a dog and howl at the moon than be that kind of Roman .
And how are you ?
So bare your chest .
Who ? Petruchio ?
And I always win . The last time we fought , he was so dazed by the end that he was n't much smarter than his horse . So tell me , who is he hanging around with these days ? Every month he has a new best friend .
All you English princes , I salute you .
Where , sir ?
I 'm not that strong , if a puny nobody can grab my sword . But why should my reputation for honor last longer than my honor did ? Let it all go .
Conceives by me ? How does that sit with you , Hortensio ?
You still have n't said anything incriminating . Good .
Something bad in that letter is making Bassanio turn pale . Some good friend of his must have died , because nothing else in the world could change a man so much . What , does the news only get worse?- -Please , Bassanio , I 'm half of you , so let me bear half the burden this letter brings you .
And now , Laertes , what do you have to tell me ? You have a favor you to ask of me . What is it , Laertes ? You 'll never waste your words when talking to the king of Denmark . What could you ever ask for that I would n't give you ? Your father and the Danish throne are as close as the mind and the heart , or the hand and the mouth . What would you like , Laertes ?
Do I look as pale as everyone else does , Lord Dorset ?
Ca n't you talk to him in a different way ?
Sirs , I ask you to sleep in my tent . I might wake you up in a while to send you on an errand to my brother Cassius .
My name is Thidias .
I hate to say it , but it 's almost two and we wo n't get there before suppertime .
Do n't worry , sir . Douglas and Mortimer are there .
No , I 'll have to decline that offer -- at least as long as I 'm stronger than you are .
Just listen , please . His death shroud was as white as snow --
Why are you asking me that ?
Come on , good fellow , help me into that armor you 're carrying . If luck deserts us today , it 's because we defy it . Come on .
Is n't my fortune just a little better than hers ? By an inch , even ?
I can understand a few of nature 's infinite secrets .
Well sir , they 've lied ; moreover , they have said things that were not true ; secondarily , they are slanderers ; sixth and lastly , they have falsely accused a lady ; thirdly , they have confirmed things that did not in fact happen ; and , in conclusion , they are lying scoundrels .
Come , you king of the vine , plump Bacchus , with your pink eyes . Our troubles are drowned in your vats . We 'll crown ourselves with wreathes of grapes .
Go bring them here . If they refuse to come , get physical -- use a whip if you have to , but get them out here to their husbands . Go on , I said . Bring them here straight away .
Listen up , uncle . Have more than you show , Speak less than you know , Lend less than you owe . Ride more than you walk , Do n't believe everything you hear , Do n't bet everything on one throw of the dice , Leave behind your booze and your whore , And stay indoors , And you 'll end up with more Than two tens to a twenty .
The same Sir John , the very same . I saw him beat Skogan upon the head when he was a little tyke , not this high . The same day , I had a fight with a guy named Sampson Stockfish . He sold fruit behind Gray 's Inn . Jesus , Jesus ! I 've had some crazy times ! To think that so many of my old pals are dead !
This is Lucianus , the king 's nephew in the play .
Has any man seen him at the barber 's ?
You 're most welcome .
Now , I swear , I 'm so angry that I 'm shaking all over . That rotten scoundrel ! Now , please , may I have a word with you , sir ? My young mistress asked me to find you . What she asked me to say I 'll keep to myself . But let me tell you this first . If you lead her into a fool 's paradise , as the saying goes , it would be an outrageous crime because the girl is so young . And if you try to trick her , it would be an evil thing to do to any woman and very poor behavior .
Why , Enobarbus , when Antony saw that Julius Caesar was dead , he cried terribly . And he wept when he found that Brutus had been killed at Philippi .
Most mighty Caesar , give me some reason , so I wo n't be laughed at when I tell them so .
It 's really the only way , Sir Andrew .
So tell me , Grumio , how goes the world ?
Fight it like a man .
We 'll get married at some point , Audrey . Be patient .
Hello , sir .
We 've been looking for you , too . We 're really depressed . Will you tell us some jokes to beat our sad - ness away ?
There must be some mistake , sir . I 'm sure nobody would have any reason to fight with me . I ca n't remember anything I 've ever done to offend anyone .
You call it my " sconce " ? I 'd rather call it my " head " so you 'd stop battering it . If you keep pounding me , I 'll need a sconce to wrap my head with , or else I 'll have to keep my brain in my chest . But sir , why are you beating me ?
You should ask them . I do n't know who they 're talking about . If I 've been with a man in any improper way , let all my sins be punished ! Oh , father , if you yourself can prove that I talked with a man at an indecent hour , or indeed that I spoke to any creature last night , you can disown me , hate me , and torture me to death !
Dance around the cauldron and throw in the poisoned entrails . You 'll go in first -- a toad that sat under a cold rock for a month , oozing poison from its pores .
Pardon me , but is he bedridden ?
My joy is so overwhelming it brings tears to my eyes . My sons , relatives , lords , and all those closest to me , I want you to witness that I will bestow my kingdom on my eldest son , Malcolm . Today I name him the prince of Cumberland . But Malcolm is n't going to be alone in receiving honors -- titles of nobility will shine like stars on all of you who deserve them . And now , let 's go to your castle at Inverness , where I will become even more obliged to you because of your hospitality .
I know a lady in Venice who 'd walk all the way to Palestine for a kiss from him .
Pardon me , but I 'm just repeating what you yourself have said .
You 're about as faithful as a whore , as trustworthy as a fox on the run , and -- as for womanhood -- a man in a dress is the minister 's wife compared to you . Get out of here , you thing , get out .
-- odors and smells are like your breath , my dearest Thisbe dear . But what 's that , a voice ! Wait here a while . I 'll be right back !
You got me , I admit it .
So , tell us , did you see that thing again tonight ?
That 's it ! I wo n't mess with him .
This 'll get him .
Please tell me , who is this man ?
And he 's made the holiest vows to me , to back up what he says .
Gentlemen and friends , thanks for bothering to come . I know you expected me to stay to dinner and have prepared a celebratory feast , but as it happens I 'm called away . So let me say goodbye .
One , so they can save the money they spent on hairstyling , and two , so that when their hair falls out it does n't land in their dinner .
Come on , sir , please . Let 's go .
This is going even better than I planned . But have you put the love juice from the flower on the eyes of that Athenian , as I asked you to do ?
If you want to cry over my bad luck , I 'll give you my eyes . I know you . Your name 's Gloucester . You have to be patient with me . I came here crying . The first time we see the world as newborns , we cry and scream . I 'll read you a sermon . Listen to this .
Get out of my sight , or I 'll give you what you deserve and spoil Caesar 's victory . Let him hoist you up in front of the shouting crowds ! Follow his chariot , like the greatest disgrace to your whole gender . Let them exhibit you to the public for meager coins , like a monstrosity . Then let Octavia dig up your face with her nails .
No lie -- she screamed at you .
The poor thing , I really think she loves me .
My dear Miss Chat - her - up , I look forward to getting to know you better .
Your subjects in the north , gracious sovereign , will provide a wall of defense against Scottish thieves across the border .
Here 's some money for your trouble .
Good day , Catesby . You 're up early . What news can you tell me in this fast - moving , unsteady state of ours ?
Who 's that calling so loud ?
Wait a minute , sir . Do you mean to say that the duke has abandoned the glamorous court to live as a monk ?
Is it now afternoon ?
You 're not asleep yet , sir ? The king 's in bed . He 's been in an unusually good mood and has granted many gifts to your household and servants . This diamond is a present from him to your wife for her boundless hospitality .
That 's for sure . I 'm not a double man . But if I 'm not Jack Falstaff , then I 'm a crook . Here 's Percy . If the king will honor me for this , fine . If not , let him kill the next Percy himself . I expect to me made an earl or a Duke for this , I 'll tell you that much .
Hurry , Messala , and I 'll look for Pindarus in the meantime .
I have a bad cold that 's bothering me . Lend me your handkerchief .
Si fortuna me tormenta , spero me contenta .
Oh please , I can imitate the best tragic actor around . I can speak and then look all around , and tremble , and start at a mere piece of straw as if I were paranoid . Frightening looks are also at my service , as are fake smiles . Anytime I need them , they 're waiting to do my bidding . But has Catesby gone ?
I 'd send seven of my servants to go get him . While I waited , I 'd frown impatiently , and perhaps wind my watch , or play with my -- with some expensive piece of jewelry I happen to be wearing . Toby would approach me . He 'd bow to me --
You thug ! I 'll call for a pair of stocks !
If that 's how you feel , Laertes -- and why should n't you ? Will you let me guide and direct you ?
Thanks for that . The adult snake lies in the ditch . The young snake that escaped will in time become poisonous and threatening , but for now he has no fangs . Get out of here . I 'll talk to you again tomorrow .
Yes , a thousand times . Peter !
By running fast .
That might well keep Macduff away from Scotland . Some holy angel should go to the court of England and give Macduff a message . He should return quickly to free our country , which is suffering under a tyrant !
I 've sent men to find him and retrieve the body . How dangerous to have this madman on the loose ! But we ca n't throw him in jail . The people love him , because they judge based on appearance rather than reason . They 'll pay attention to the severity of the punishment , not the severity of the crime . No , we must seem calm and fair - minded , and our sending him away must seem like a carefully considered move . But a terminal disease requires extreme treatment , or nothing at all .
I 'll obey you as well as I can , ma'am .
Shall I tell Caesar what you request from him ? He almost begs for the opportunity to help you . It would please him very much if you would rely on his wealth and success to support you . But he would feel even better if I could tell him that you had left Antony and put yourself under his protection .
Do n't make me wait for dinner even a moment . Get it ready immediately .
I know you can do better than that , but it 'll do for now .
That 's not what I wish . I love him even when he 's harsh and mean --Help me unpin this , would you?- -I love even his stubbornness , his frowns , his bad moods .
You can trust me . Go now and get cash . I told you before , and I 'll tell you again and again : I hate the Moor . I 'm devoted to my cause of hating him , just as devoted as you are to yours . So let 's join forces and get revenge . If you seduce Desdemona and make a fool out of him , it 'll be fun for both of us . Many things may happen . Go get money . We 'll speak again tomorrow . Goodbye .
I am Cinna the poet , I am Cinna the poet !
Do you know me ? Am I Dromio ? Am I your servant ? Am I myself ?
Come on . He 's hidden behind these trees to keep the night company . His love is blind , so it belongs in the dark .
If she 's not ill , I 'll never trust drugs again .
Inside , sir , with the earl .
The very one , Biondello .
What color is it ?
You 're sure full of smooth answers . Are you friendly with goldsmiths ' wives , and memorized your little speeches off of their rings ?
Not now , my sweet Desdemona . Some other time .
And to you .
This letter from Bellario introduces us to a young and well-educated legal expert . Where is he ?
Good .
That 's another bad deal I 've made ! -- a bankrupt , a spendthrift , who now has to hide his head on the Rialto , a beggar who used to look so smug in front of the other merchants . Let him think about his own debt . He liked to call me a loan shark ; let him think about his debt to me . He used to lend money as a favor between Christians ; but now , let him think about his own debt .
Hello , sir .
And for dinner , too , though you do n't know it . Come , are you going ?
Are you crazy ? I 'm ordering you , go home .
I think she 's the most wonderful woman I 've ever laid eyes on .
You should project a peaceful mood , because if you look troubled , you will arouse suspicion . Leave all the rest to me .
The fight is between our masters , and we men who work for them .
My lord , how are you feeling ?
Good to see you , Master Antipholus . I see you 've met with the jeweler . Is that chain you 're wearing the one you promised to give to me ?
It does n't get seen enough ; you should wear it in your cap , the way fools wear coxcombs . God , I 'm really sick .
Goodnight , sweetheart , I 'm going to leave you now .
And if he were handsome , agile , and rich , too , he could have any woman in the world -- all he 'd need was her good will .
That 's the right attitude . So , listen , Hermia . I have an aunt who is a widow , who 's very rich and does n't have any children . She lives about twenty miles from Athens , and she thinks of me as a son . I could marry you there , gentle Hermia , where the strict laws of Athens ca n't touch us . So here 's the plan . If you love me , sneak out of your father 's house tomorrow night and meet me in the forest a few miles outside of town .
No , not until we see a hot January .
No doubt it will , my liege , if each man does his best .
That will happen before sunset .
I pick the younger one .
But , uncle , we 're being disrespected .
How do you mean ?
Put the goblets of wine on that table . If Hamlet makes the first or second hit , or gets back at Laertes by making the third hit , then let my soldiers give him a military salute . I 'll drink to Hamlet 's health , and into his goblet I 'll drop a pearl even more costly than those in the crowns of the last four Danish kings . Give me the goblets . And now let the drum and the trumpet play , and the trumpet signal the cannon outside to fire , and let the cannon tell the heavens , and the heavens tell all the earth that the king is drinking now to Hamlet 's health . Come on , let 's begin . Judges , pay close attention .
Me too , I 'm as faithful as Shafalus to Procrus .
Gentle gods in heaven , please let me die . Do n't tempt me to suicide again .
Iago has orders what to do . But I 'll see to it personally anyway .
It 's good if you love Hero , because she 's worthy of your love .
That will please God , who has him now .
I 'm a prince by birth , Miranda -- maybe even a king now ; though I wish I were n't -- and normally I would n't put up with carrying these logs any more than I 'd let flies breed in my mouth . But I 'll tell you something from my soul . The second I saw you , my heart rushed to serve you and be your slave , so here I am now , a patient log - man .
Yes , that 's it ! The tailor thinks he can make you into some sort of plaything .
Do n't worry about me .
You 're everywhere , are n't you ? Maybe we should move . Come over here , gentlemen , and put your hands on my sword again . Swear by my sword you 'll never mention what you 've heard .
Oh forgive me , your highness . If it were n't for these tears -- which are impeding my speech --I would have stopped this harsh scolding before you , in your grief , had spoken and before I had listened so long . There 's your crown . May God , who wears the crown eternally , guard it as yours for a long time . If I care for the crown in any way other than as a symbol of your honor and reputation , let me never rise from this kneeling position . It is my deepest and most dutiful feelings which teach my body to bend and bow to you , causing my outer body to reflect my inner feelings . May God be my witness : when I came in here and saw that you were n't breathing , my blood ran cold . If I 'm lying ,
Well , you 're a liar , then . It 's the blessed sun .
Just half an hour !
Are you swearing , you ungracious boy ? From now on , do not even look at me . You have been violently turned away from goodness ; there is a devil that haunts you , in the shape of an old , fat man . A ton of man is your companion . Why do you associate with that trunk of bodily fluids , that sifting bin of beastliness , that swollen sack of disease , that huge jug of wine , that stuffed suitcase of guts , that roasted ox crammed with pudding , that ancient Vice , that gray-haired immorality , that father criminal , that aged vanity ? What is he good for , besides tasting wine and drinking it ? What does he do skillfully , besides carving chickens and eating them ? What 's he smart about besides schemes ? What does he scheme about besides crime ? What is he criminal about besides everything ? What is he good for besides nothing ?
Great kings of France and England , I owe you both equal service and loyalty . Your Highnesses can both attest to the fact that I 've strived mightily , with all my wits and energy , to bring about this royal meeting between you two imperial Majesties . Since I have succeeded to the point of bringing you face to face and eye to eye , do n't take it ill if I formally demand to know , before this royal congregation , what obstacle or impediment prevents the poor fragile , mangled peace , the mother of arts and joyous births , from showing her lovely face in this most fertile garden of the world , our fair France ? Alas , she has been too long exiled from France , whose crops all lie in heaps , rotting with ripeness . Her grapes , which make the wine that cheers our hearts , die unpruned on the vines . Her once - trimmed hedges , like prisoners with wild , untended hair , put forth unruly twigs . Her fallow fields are overgrown with weeds , while the blade that should uproot such wilderness lies rusting . The level meadow , where the freckled cowslip , burnet , and green clover once grew , has become useless : unmowed , it grows to seed , so that nothing springs up but weeds , rough thistles , barren plants , and burs . And just as our vineyards , fallow fields , meadows , and hedges , which grow improperly if left to themselves , run riot , so our families and ourselves and our
Not me .
If that 's true , we should let God take care of it .
He 's at home , my lord .
Indeed , I should have asked you before who he was .
Ca n't help it ? Nonsense ! What we are is up to us . Our bodies are like gardens and our willpower is like the gardener . Depending on what we plant -- weeds or lettuce , or one kind of herb rather than a variety , the garden will either be barren and useless , or rich and productive . If we did n't have rational minds to counterbalance our emotions and desires , our bodily urges would take over . We 'd end up in ridiculous situations . Thankfully , we have reason to cool our raging lusts . In my opinion , what you call love is just an offshoot of lust .
Trinculo , if you interrupt him any more , I swear I 'll knock some teeth out of your head .
What is it that 's got you so carried away ?
What trade , boy ? You insolent rascal , what trade ?
What is it , jolly Bottom ?
What 's her skin like ?
I hear someone knocking at the south entry . Let 's go back to our bedroom . A little water will wash away the evidence of our guilt . It 's so simple ! You 've lost your resolve .
Did your brother tell you how well I pretended to faint when he showed me the handkerchief ?
Yes , my lord .
That 's a good song .
Hurry , hurry , close the curtain quick . The prince of Arragon has taken his oath , and he 's coming to make his choice now .
I swear by the mass , before I close my eyes to go to sleep , I 'll put in some good fighting , or I 'll lie in the ground dead . And I 'll kill as valiantly as I can , that 's for sure . That is the long and the short of it . But truly , I would love to hear the two of you discuss warfare .
His absence means he 's broken his promise , sir . If it pleases you , your highness , why do n't you sit with us and grace us with your royal company ?
Well , go ahead . But do n't let me catch him , because if I do I 'll break that clerk 's pen .
Most high , most mighty , and most powerful Caesar , Metellus Cimber kneels before you with a humble heart --
Yes , Captain , but with this acknowledgement -- that God fought for us .
Please , Rosalind , my sweet cousin -- be happy .
Why , he 's the Prince 's fool , and a very dull fool at that . His only talent is his capacity to come up with unbelievable slanders . Only the most immoral people enjoy his company , and they like him not for his wit but his outrageousness . He manages to both please and anger people ; they laugh at him and then beat him up . I 'm sure he 's out there dancing . I could have sworn he trampled on me .
Yes , madam . He wants to patch things up between Richard and your brothers , and between your brothers and Hastings . He has summoned them all .
Yes , even if I had whole kingdoms to give along with her .
Beating ? Why , what did he do ?
Well , all right then . Now I see that you have some guts . From this moment on I have a higher opinion of you than before . Give me your hand , Roderigo . Your complaint against me is perfectly understandable , but I still insist I 've done everything I could to help you .
If that 's true , he wo n't get it back by crying .
You ca n't conceive ? Well , this guy 's mother could conceive him all to well . She grew a big belly and had a baby for her crib before she had a husband for her bed . Do you smell something naughty ?
Come on , come on ! Calm down , calm down . We need to treat him gently . Let me take care of this . --How are you , Malvolio ? How are things ? Come on , man , just say no to the devil ! Think about it , he 's the enemy of mankind .
If you were the noblest of your family , young man , you could n't die more honorably .
My dream told me that dreamers often lie .
Now , my lords : if God grants us a victory in this violent civil war that bleeds at our very doorsteps , I will lead our young people in a greater cause , and fight nothing but holy wars . Our navy is ready , our army is assembled , the leaders who are my subordinates have their orders , and everything is standing by to achieve my main aim . The only drawback is that I 'm feeling a little weak . So let 's wait a short while , until the rebels , now on the run , are brought back in line and are made obedient again .
Speaking for myself -- and no offense to the general or anyone else --I hope I 'm going to heaven .
Nothing . It 's just that he left me here behind to interpret his signs and signals .
What , drunk with anger ? Wait a minute . Here comes your uncle .
I want blood !
Good God ! As absolute a traitor as any in the whole entire world -- or even France or England !
I do n't have any " brilliant " reason for it , but I have a good enough reason .
You 've said all this already . You 've announced it in marketplaces , given sermons on it in churches . You 've tried to make rebellion look pleasant in the eyes of all the fickle turncoats and poor malcontents , who laugh and clap eagerly at the news that a revolution is coming . But rebellion always trades in these kinds of thin excuses , and never lacks angry beggars , desperate for mayhem and chaos .
That really would be kind .
My soul is calling out my name . The sound of lovers calling each others names through the night is silver - sweet . It 's the sweetest sound a lover ever hears .
You nymphs who live in the wandering brooks , with seaweed crowns and innocent looks , step out of the water and come join us here on this grassy field . Juno
Oh , dear husband , do n't believe everything you hear -- or if you must believe it , do n't let it all make you angry . No lady could be more miserable than I if you two disagree . I 'll be left in the middle , praying for both sides . The good gods will laugh at me when on the one hand I pray for my husband and on the other for my brother . " Let my husband win ! " " Let my brother win ! " One prayer cancels out the other . There 's no middle ground between these two extremes .
Good girl , give it to me .
Any minute . Probably here already . So be careful , and do n't --God ! Quiet , I hear him coming .
No , the legs and thighs . Let me see you dance . Ha , higher ! Ha , ha , excellent !
Please listen to me carefully . As I neglected practical matters , being totally dedicated to solitude and to improving my mind with subjects more valuable than most people imagine , I was so shut away from the world that I unwittingly stirred up evil wishes in my disloyal brother . My deep trust in him made him deeply untrustworthy , arousing in him a treachery as big as my trust was -- my trust which had no limit , an infinite confidence . With Antonio possessing such powers and wealth , coming not only from my income but also from his ability to take whatever my authority allowed him to take , Antonio started to believe that he was the duke , like some liar who begins to believe in his own lie . He put on the face of royalty , with all the rights that go along with it . With his ambition growing like this --do you hear what I 'm saying ?
Let 's not talk about it . I 've noticed it myself . Go and tell my daughter I want to speak with her .
I 'll be back for you soon .
I have a pretty good ear for music . Let 's hear someone play the triangle and the sticks .
The gods do this to test my bravery . They 're saying I 'd be an animal without a heart if I stayed home today out of fear . So , I wo n't .
That 's another sin arising from your ignorance : you bring ewes and rams together and make your living by their copulation . You act as a pimp to a young ewe by forcing her to have sex with a crooked - headed , horny old ram -- a totally unreasonable match . If you 're not damned for that , then the devil must be keeping shepherds out of hell ; I ca n't see how else you can hope to escape .
What 's happening ?
Where is he ?
Because I love your Grace , I say that whoever the offenders are deserve to die .
We 'll let you .
I never saw a better-designed gown , more elegant and pleasing and well made . Perhaps you think you can make me into some sort of plaything ?
Malcolm and Donalbain are asleep in the same room .
Sir ... sir ...
How are you doing , brother ?
But the goodwill ambassador wo n't give up that easily .
If that ever happened , you 'd go absolutely mad .
You 're my mother . When you married my mother , the two of you became one flesh , so if you 're my father you 're also my mother . Come on , off to England !
If you have a voice or can make sounds , speak to me .
I could marry that Maria for thinking this up .
Now , here 's what needs to be done .
What does Lord Stanley say ? Will he bring his army ?
I 'll speak as sharp as a dagger to her , but I wo n't use one on her . And so , my words and thoughts will be at odds .
Yes , I found him when he was asleep -- so that 's taken care of too -- and the Athenian woman was sleeping near him . When he woke up , he must have seen her .
I have it ready for you . Here it is .
English king , since he 's raging like a fever in my brain , and you must cure me . Until I know it 's been done , I 'll never be happy , no matter how much luck I have .
He 'll kill me with tortures .
Yes , Davy . I 'll take good care of him . A friend at court is better than money in your pocket . Take good care of his men , Davy . They 're good - for - nothings , and they 'll bite you .
My lord ?
I 'm only wound up because the sea 's wound up . Now get out of here ! Do you think these waves care anything about kings and officials ? Go to your cabins and be quiet ! Do n't bother us up here .
The combination of forced patience and pure rage is making my body tremble . I 'll leave here now , but Romeo 's prank , which seems so sweet to him now , will turn bitter to him later .
Come , let 's make a solemn procession to the village . And let it be proclaimed throughout our army that it shall be a hanging offense for anyone to boast of this or take from God the credit that belongs to Him alone .
Then who took my letter to Romeo ?
Sirs , you ought to think to yourself , bringing in --God forbid ! -- a lion amongst ladies is really terrible . There 's no scarier wild bird than the living lion , and we should remember that .
If someone like me is fit to be king , let me know . I really am exactly as I have described myself to you .
Not in the stocks , fool .
You 'd better shut up !
But like a misbehaved , sullen girl , you 're whining about your bad luck and your love . Listen , listen , people who act like that die miserable . Go be with your love , as it was decided at your wedding . Climb up to her bedroom and comfort her . But get out of there before the night watchmen take their positions . Then you will escape to the city of Mantua , where you 'll live until we can make your marriage public and make peace between your families . We 'll ask the Prince to pardon you . Then we 'll welcome you back with twenty thousand times more joy than you 'll have when you leave this town crying . Go ahead , Nurse . Give my regards to your lady , and tell her to hurry everybody in the house to bed . I 'm sure they 're all so sad that they 'll be ready to sleep . Romeo is coming .
Come here , herald . --Let the trumpet sound ! --Read this out .
I have nothing else to offer . That 's everything I own . I ca n't offer her more than all I have . If you choose me , she shall have me and mine .
In heaven . Send a messager there if you want to be sure . If your messenger ca n't find him , you can check hell yourself . But seriously , if you do n't find him within the next month , you 'll be sure to smell him as you go upstairs into the main hall .
Oh , I know what you 're talking about . It 's true : it was as sudden as two rams rushing at each other , and as quick as Julius Caesar 's " I came , I saw , I conquered . " Your brother and my sister had no sooner met than they gave each other a good once over ; they had no sooner looked at each other than they fell in love ; no sooner fell in love than they sighed ; no sooner sighed than they asked each other why they had sighed ; no sooner answered than they sought a solution . And in this way , degree by degree , they 've built a staircase toward marriage . And they had better climb those stairs immediately , or else they 'll end up in bed before they ought to . They 're in the heat of passion ; they simply have to be together . You could n't beat the two of them apart .
The little monkey must have started that rumor herself . She thinks I 'll marry her because she loves me . She 's just flattering herself . I never promised her anything .
What are these warlike noises ?
Farewell , King . If this is how you act , it 's clear that freedom has been banished from this kingdom . I hope the gods will protect you , my dear girl , for thinking fairly and speaking correctly . And you two , I hope your actions carry out your grand promises of love , so that big words can bring big results . Farewell to all of you . I 'll carry on my old life in a new land .
Oh , that splendid Caesar !
I think I do .
You should know this : much luck is on my side , and my enemies have happened to wreck their ship on this island . As I see it , my fate hangs on this lucky event , and if I handle it wrong , I 'll suffer for the rest of my life . Now , no more questions .
I do .
You think it 's that easy ? If doing good deeds were as easy as knowing how to do them , then everyone would be better off . Small chapels would be big churches , and poor men 's cottages would be princes ' palaces . It takes a good priest to practice what he preaches . For me , it 's easier to lecture twenty people on how to be good than to be the one person out of twenty who actually does good things . The brain can tell the heart what to do , but what does it matter ? Cold rules do n't matter when you 've got a hot temper . Young people are like frisky young rabbits , and good advice is like a crippled old man trying to catch them . But thinking like this wo n't help me choose a husband . Oh , the word " choose " is strange ! I ca n't choose who I like , or refuse who I dislike . I 'm a living daughter still controlled by the wishes of her dead father . Is n't it a pain that I ca n't choose or refuse anyone , Nerissa ?
My lord , you could really help me out now .
You seem like a gentleman of high rank .
This is the silliest thing I 've ever seen .
You 're afraid , so you hide your identity . But do n't be afraid , Cesario . Accept the good luck that 's come your way . Be the person you know you are , and you 'll be as powerful as this person you fear .
There is laughter in heaven When earthly affairs are put right And people unite .
Do n't lie about my brother . He is kind .
Gloucester , it 's true that we are in great danger . But our courage should only be the greater for that . Good morning , brother Bedford . God Almighty , there must be some essential goodness even in evil , if men would only look for it . In our case , our bad neighbors over their make us early risers , a healthy and sensible thing to be . Besides , they act as outward consciences and preachers to us all , a visible reminder that we should prepare ourselves for death . Think like that , and you 'll manage to get honey out of a common weed and find a moral lesson in the devil himself .
Does n't this make your blood run cold ?
I 'm glad about that . Sly words are never understood by fools .
I 'm coming .
Here .
What letters have you got there ? All I can do is thank you .
That was the roar of the sea . The clanging trumpet sounds !
I would n't stay here tonight for the entire town . Go and get our stuff onto the ship .
And yet I 'll still have plenty .
Goodbye . If luck 's with me , I 'll lose a father , and you 'll lose a daughter .
Control yourself , my precious Queen , and concede that my love is true . It has endured many genuine trials .
" My gold , " he said . " Where 's the thousand marks I gave you , scoundrel ? " " The pig , " I said , " is burned . " " My gold , " he said . " My mistress , " I said . " Damn your mistress ! I do n't know your mistress , the hell with your mistress ! "
Then why are n't you with him at Windsor ?
Here comes the man himself .
For this , I 'll never be faithful to your declining fortunes again . A person who wants something but wo n't take it when it materializes wo n't get the opportunity again .
Wait , countrymen .
We can trust this guy . He was given exactly the same orders we were .
Listen , sad friends , though the gods may rebuke me , this news would make kings cry .
You have a quick wit ; I think it must be made out of Atalanta 's heels . Why do n't you sit down with me ? The two of us can complain about our mistress -- the world -- and all our miseries .
Here I am at your service , my dear lord .
Soldier , you must come to the king .
I know , prince .
Well , I was looking for a fool when I found you , so I suppose I should n't be surprised .
A daughter ? Oh God , I wish the two of them were alive and living in Naples , as king and queen ! I 'd give up my life and take my son 's place in the mud on the ocean floor if I could see them alive in Naples . --When did you lose your daughter ?
Oh , heaven help me ! Are n't you a rational human being ? Do n't you have any sense at all ? Goodbye . I resign my official position . I 'm such an idiot for always telling the truth ! What a horrible world we live in ! Listen , pay attention , everybody . It 's not safe to be straightforward and honest . I 'm glad you 've taught me this valuable lesson . From now on , I 'll never try to help a friend when it hurts him so much to hear the truth .
What 's the matter ? What 's the matter , husband ?
These are stupid old jokes that men tell each other in bars . What horrible thing do you have to say about a woman who 's both ugly and stupid ?
Welcome , honest Master Bardolph . If you want something and do n't ask for it , that 's your tough luck . Welcome , my little tiny thief , welcome indeed . I 'll drink to Master Bardolph , and to all the good sports around London .
How horrible ! What , in our own house ?
Please sir , if love or money can buy anything in this empty place , tell us where we can rest and feed ourselves . We 'll pay you for the information . We have a young woman here who is very tired from traveling and faint with hunger .
Remember March , March 15th . Did n't great Caesar bleed for the sake of justice ?
I wish your Highness knew my true feelings in this matter : I have never in my life loved my brother .
I heard what you did for her , Pompey , and want to give you the many thanks I owe you .
Praise be to God ! That 's where I must die . For years it 's been predicted that I would die in Jerusalem ; I foolishly thought that meant the Holy Land . But carry me to that room , and there I 'll lie . In that Jerusalem will Harry die .
It should n't be too much to ask ; I 'm only begging for a beggar . They say Cressida became a beggar in her old age . My lady Olivia 's inside , sir . I 'll tell them where you come from , though I do n't know who you are or what you want . I 'd say I was " out of my element , " but that phrase is overused , so I 'll say I 'm " out of my air . "
Well there , now you 've said it . It 's a pity that the rich have more freedom to hang or drown themselves than the rest of us Christians . Come on , shovel . The most ancient aristocrats in the world are gardeners , ditch - diggers , and gravediggers . They keep up Adam 's profession .
I feel a lot better after talking to this guy . He does n't look like a person who would drown -- he looks like he was born to be hanged . I hope he lives long enough to be hanged . The rope that hangs him will do more good than all the ropes on this ship , since it 'll guarantee he stays alive through this storm . But if he 's not destined to die by hanging , then our chances do n't look too good .
No , it 's a story .
Follow him , friends . We 'll watch a whole play tomorrow . My friend , can you perform The Murder of Gonzago ?
True . I 'm talking about dreams , which are the products of a brain that 's doing nothing . Dreams are nothing but silly imagination , as thin as air , and less predictable than the wind , which sometimes blows on the frozen north and then gets angry and blows south .
I 'll tell you everything , and I promise to give you calm seas and favorable winds for your trip . You 'll sail so fast that you 'll catch up with the royal navy . -- My Ariel , baby , that job 's for you . After that you 'll be free as the air . Farewell ! --Please , all the rest of you , come closer .
Even an idiot knows when the normal order has been inverted and the cart is pulling the horse . Whoo-hoo , honey , I love you !
Her eyes are like April : full of showers . But they 'll flower into love . Be cheerful .
That was the poisoned drink . It 's too late .
Do you want my true opinion ? Or do you want me to criticize her like I do all women ?
My gracious lord , I should tell you what I saw , but I do n't know how to say it .
Down to the last detail .
That 's not a problem : the feet can bear the verses .
Quiet , you chatterer , quiet !
I love rich Capulet 's daughter . I love her , and she loves me . We 're bound to each other in every possible way , except we need you to marry us . I 'll tell you more later about when and where we met , how we fell in love , and how we exchanged promises , but now I 'm begging you : please , agree to marry us today .
The powerful dukes Gloucester and Buckingham .
Shame , eternal shame , and nothing but shame ! Let us die honorably . Back into the fray once again ! He who will not follow me now , let him depart and stand in the doorway like a pimp , cap in hand , while some slave , no nobler than my dog , violates his daughter .
Well what do you know ! Hortensio fears his widow .
Hero , you and the other women should all retreat to a room . When I send for you , come out wearing masks . The Prince and Claudio are supposed to be here by now . --You know your job , brother . You have to pretend to be your niece 's father , and give her away to Claudio .
You 've broken the terms of our sworn agreement . You will never be able to say the same about me .
Antonius , after you take off , do n't forget to touch Calphurnia , because our wise elders say that if you touch an infertile woman during this holy race , she 'll be freed from the curse of sterility .
It 's two o'clock now . But let me see , by ten we shall each have captured a hundred Englishmen .
Because you gave me something for nothing .
What , am I being denied death , as well ? The thing which even dogs are given , to rid them of their suffering ?
Yes , but now there 's no way to calm him down . Fabian can hardly control him over there .
If I live to be a man , I 'll win France again or die a soldier , as honorably as I lived as a king .
Here 's a goat for you . Will you be good enough to eat it , mangy rascal ?
Oh happy day ! I would n't even trade a knighthood for my new , good fortune .
Is n't it odd that desire lasts so much longer than the ability to perform ?
Even if marrying her meant I died .
Answer me , answer me .
No , really , I 'm not .
You mean it the other way around . You 're better off because of your friends .
Davy , there are a lot of suits against that Visor . That Visor is a good - for - nothing , as best I can tell .
Never .
So be it . This , then , this is the message Caesar sends to you , famous Queen : he implores you not to be concerned about your situation . Just remember that he is Caesar .
This stable 's got worse fleas than any in London . I 'm stung like a tench .
Get away from me , you nag ! Love ? I do n't love you . I do n't even care about you , Kate . This is no time for playing with dolls and jousting with kisses ; we 'll have bloody noses and broken heads , and spread them around , too . For God 's sake , my horse ! What , Kate ? What do you want from me ?
No , please , save it for dinner conversation . That way , no matter what you say , I 'll digest it with everything else .
That business venture you 're referring to happened because God made it happen like that . Jacob did n't have any control over what happened . Are you saying this story proves that charging interest makes sense ? That your interest payments are like Jacob 's sheep ?
Listen ! I 'm being called . Look , my little spirit is sitting in a foggy cloud waiting for me .
Well , mistress , are you learning from what you 're reading ?
I will go straight to visit him . I ask for him , and he comes . Fortune is happy today and , in this mood , will give us anything we want .
Not in my husband 's nose .
I know him to be valiant .
That she did . And yet for all that , if she did n't hate him to death , she 'd love him to death . Leonato 's daughter had told us everything .
and patches of righteousness . But the devil that tempted you gave you no reason why you should commit treason other than to win the name of traitor . The demon who seduced you could stride the world over with the proud gait of a lion , could return to hell and tell the devil 's legions , " I will never win another soul as easily as I won that Englishman 's . " How you have poisoned my faith in people ! Now I am suspicious of everyone . Are there men who appear dutiful ? Why , so did you . Are there those who seem serious and knowledgeable ? Why , so did you . Do they come from good families ? Why , so did you . Do they seem religious ? Why , so did you . Do they live in moderation , free from excessive emotion -- stable rather than changing their minds constantly -- tastefully dressed , not merely seeing but also listening , and trusting no impression without confirmation ? That 's how sound a man you appeared . Your fall has left a blot that opens even the best and brightest to suspicion . You have broken my heart . This treachery of yours is like the second Fall of man . --Their crimes are revealed . Arrest and punish them according to the law , and may God pardon them for what they would have done .
Do n't you know he has ?
My lord of Gloucester , I have suffered your blunt upbraidings and your bitterness toward me for too long . By God , I will tell the king about these taunts . I would rather be a country serving maid than a great queen if it meant I could escape your scorn and constant harassment .
Yes , he was .
Do n't worry , I 'm looking into that too . I 'm on top of the situation -- monitoring it very closely . We 'll outwit them all -- that old geezer , Gremio ; the suspicious father , Minola ; the prim musician lover , Litio -- all for the sake of my master , Lucentio .
I 'm unlucky . I do n't have a talent for putting my heart 's feelings into words . I love you as a child should love her father , neither more nor less .
I 'll probably call you those names again and spit on you , and reject you again too . If you 're going to lend us this money , do n't lend it to us as if we were your friends . When did friends charge interest ? Instead , lend it to me as your enemy . If your enemy goes bankrupt , it 's easier for you to take your penalty from him .
Then I 'm giving you the finger .
Well , you 're wrong , my Lord High Constable . But even if I thought you were right , it does n't matter . When it comes to defense , it 's best to assume that the enemy is more powerful than he seems . That way , we fill the gaps in our defenses . Otherwise , if we do it on the cheap , we 'll be like the miser who spoils his new coat by not buying quite enough cloth to make it .
Bassanio 's walking to the boxes now . He looks as dignified as Hercules did when he saved the princess Hesione from the sea monster . But he loves me more than Hercules loved the princess . I 'll play Hesione , and everyone else will be the bystanders watching with tear-streaked faces . We 've all come out to see what will happen . --Go , Hercules ! If you survive , I 'll live . I 'm more anxious watching you fight than you are in the fight itself .
Sir , sir , sir --
My sweet , so do I. But I would kill you by petting you too much . Good night , good night . Parting is such sweet sorrow that I 'll say good night until tonight becomes tomorrow .
I ca n't believe you 're my son .
Look at them . Take a good look , and you 'll see that one of the three men who rule the world has turned into a whore 's jester . Look and see .
All right , then .
Oh , Jesus ! This is an excellent game , truly !
Look , Claudio , I can keep secrets like a mute ; I want you to know that . But I owe Don Pedro my allegiance -- look , I have to tell him -- Claudio is in love . With whom ? That 's what you 're supposed to ask me next , your Grace . Look how short the answer is -- with Hero , Leonato 's short daughter .
You jerk , we did tie them up , every single one of them , or I 'm a Jew , a true Hebrew Jew .
This toast is for Lepidus !
Why , because we 're always handling our ewes , and their fleece , as you know , is greasy .
Please , Sir John , let 's call it twenty nobles . I do n't want to have to pawn my china , in God 's name !
Good evening to you , too , noble sir , and to all of you .
When did you become so fond of singing , boy ?
Wait , let me hire him too . --Here 's my fool 's cap , a token of my gratitude .
Why did you do that ? Does n't Benedick deserve as much luck with a mate as he would have with Beatrice ?
Is that you , Iago ? I 'm here , I 've been destroyed by villains ! Help me .
And have I ever seemed less than modest or appropriate to you ?
Oh , what a villain I am !
I go , I go , look at me go -- faster than an arrow from a Tartar 's bow .
No news but the old news : the old Duke Senior has been banished by his younger brother , the new Duke Frederick . A few loyal lords have gone into exile with Duke Senior , and given up their lands and money to Frederick -- so he 's happy enough to have them leave .
And I can teach you , kinsman , how to shame the devil -- by telling the truth ! " Tell the truth and shame the devil , " as the old saying goes . If you do have the power to call him up , then bring him here . And I 'll swear I have the power to shame him into leaving . Oh , for goodness sake , tell the truth and shame the devil !
Terrible . Terrible .
Who are these men ?
You speak more wisely than you know .
If you say it is n't true , I 'll give you a province and make you rich . The blows I gave you already will make up for your upsetting me . And on top of that I 'll give you whatever you ask for .
That 's already been done , sir . They 're all ready to eat dinner .
Then do n't come in with me . He 's a coward and ca n't commit himself to doing anything risky . He chooses not to be insulted rather than challenge those who offend him . But what we talked about with longing on the way may soon come true . Edmund , go back to see my brother - in - law . Gather his soldiers and organize his troops . I plan to take charge of my household . From now on I will wear the pants , and my husband can play the housewife . We can trust Oswald to carry messages between us . If you act boldly , you will soon obey me as your true mistress . Take this as a token of my esteem . Do n't speak . Lean down . This kiss should encourage you . I hope you understand me . Goodbye , and good luck .
You get only one round .
That 's right , sir . And I 'm going to draw you out of this room by the ears .
Antipholus , you hear how the man pleads with me . Give me the necklace !
I obey all your thoughts . What do you wish ?
You 're right , Chief Justice , and you have considered this well . Therefore , keep your position as judge and enforcer . I hope that your honors increase , and that you live to see a son of mine offend and then obey you , as I have . I will live to speak my father 's words : " I am a happy man , to have a man brave enough to punish my own son ; and I 'm no less happy to have a son that would surrender his greatness , and put himself in the hands of the law . " You imprisoned me , and for that I charge you to continue in my service , with this reminder : you must always be as courageous , just , and impartial as you were with me . Shake my hand . You 'll be like a father to me , and I will say whatever it is you whisper in my ear . I will bow to you , and keep myself humble in the face of your wisdom and experience . And princes , believe me , please : my father lies wild in his grave , for he took my recklessness with him when he died . His sober spirit survives in me , and I will flout the world 's expectations . I will prove their prophecies false , and flush out the rotten opinions of those who judged me based on what I once seemed to be . My behavior , the tide of my blood , used to flow proudly and vainly . But now , it ebbs and turns back toward the sea , where it will mingle with the ocean 's majesty and flow back through my body with formal dignity . Now I will assemble my parliament , and choose such noble officers and advisors that our great country will be able to march alongside the best governed nations . We 'll become acquainted and familiar
Macbeth .
He 's just as terrified of Sir Andrew . He 's pale and hyperventilating , as if a bear were chasing him .
My lord , if he dares to accept my challenge , I 'll beat him and prove he 's guilty . I 'll beat him despite his fancy fencing techniques and all the practicing he does , despite his youth and manliness .
Fulvia ?
I 'm wounded . Follow me , madam . --Throw the blind traitor outside . And throw this dead peasant into the manure pit . --Regan , I 'm bleeding . It 's a bad time for such an injury . Give me your arm .
A messenger from Lord Stanley .
I 'm putting my arms around you just like the woodbine tendril gently twists itself around the sweet honeysuckle , and like the female ivy curls itself around the branches of the elm tree . Oh , how I love you ! I 'm so crazy about you !
You 're funny , and I like that . The gallows do a good job . But how ? It does a good job for those who do bad .
I thank him for cutting off my speech , since I have no talent for speaking . Only one more thing : each man should do his best , and with that I will draw my sword . On this dangerous day , I intend to stain it with the best blood I can find . " Hope is my comfort ! " Percy ! Let 's go ! Sound all the imposing instruments of battle , and let 's embrace one another to the tune of that music . For , by heaven , some of us will never be able to do that again .
You 're kidding !
If you 're my lord and husband , I must be your lady and wife , so you 're supposed to be faithful to me . But I know for a fact that you snuck away from Fairyland disguised as a shepherd , and spent all day playing straw pipes and singing love poems to your new girlfriend . The only reason you left India was to come here and see that butch Amazon Hippolyta . She was your boot-wearing mistress and your warrior lover , and now that she 's getting married to Theseus , you 've come to celebrate their marriage .
Yes , you did . Did you see anything ?
You horrible slave , with a wicked hag for a mother and the devil himself for a father , come out !
I wish he were fatter ! But I 'm not afraid of him . And yet , if I were capable of fearing anyone , Cassius would be the first man I 'd avoid . He reads a lot , he 's a keen observer , and he sees the hidden motives in what men do . He does n't like plays the way you do , Antony . He does n't listen to music . He rarely smiles , and when he does smile , he does so in a self-mocking way , as if he scorns himself for smiling at all . Men like him will never be comfortable while someone ranks higher than themselves , and therefore they 're very dangerous . I 'm telling you what should be feared , not what I fear -- because after all , I am Caesar . Come over to my right side , because this ear is deaf , and tell me what you really think of Cassius .
" De nick . " And le menton ?
To invite my former boss , the Jew , to dine tonight with my new master , the Christian .
Yes , but you need to keep yourself within the limits of order and decency .
You should tell me to calm down --I 'm the one who 's suffering here .
Will your Majesty grant us permission to freely express the message we 've been asked to convey ? Or should we be tactful and only hint at what the Dauphin sent us to say ?
What , do you think we 're Turks or savages , instead of Christians ? You think we would have disobeyed the law and proceeded to kill this villain if England 's peace and our own lives had n't been at stake ?
May the good Lord keep me safe from all women like her !
I will have to go on a journey to death soon , sir . My master 's calling me . I ca n't say no .
A gullible father and a brother who 's so innocent that he ca n't suspect anyone else of wanting to hurt him -- these are the two fools I need for my plan to work . I know exactly how to proceed . If I ca n't have an estate by birthright , then I 'll get it by being clever . Any trick that works is good for me .
I feel sicker and sicker .
He 's very observant . I can tell . She does n't have anything going for her so far . This messenger is wise .
No one except her maid and a holy hermit . Has my master returned yet ?
Oh ! Then the earth trembled when it saw the heavens on fire , and not in fear of your birth . When nature is diseased , strange eruptions can break forth . Often , the earth is pinched with a kind of colic , and troubled by gas in her belly . When that gas struggles to be released , it shakes old Mother Earth , bringing down steeples and moss-covered towers . When you were born , our Mother Earth was ill and shook with pain .
God will free you from blame . I 'll follow you to heaven in a minute . --I 'm dying , Horatio . --Goodbye , miserable queen . --And all you people watching , pale and trembling , speechless spectators of these acts , I could tell you a thing or two if I had the time . Let it be . --Horatio , I 'm dying . You 're alive . Tell everyone what happened ; set the story straight .
I 'll tell the duke right away that you 're going to see the king , which is forbidden . And I 'll tell him about the letter too . You 'll get what you deserve , and I 'll be rewarded with everything you lose -- in other words , all your lands . The young generation rises while the old one falls .
Please tell him I have surrendered to his fortune . I give up to him the glory he has won . I 'm learning every hour how to be subservient . I 'd be happy to meet with him in person .
With that you 've managed to prick her with a thistle .
Here , uncle Exeter , fill this glove with gold coins and give it to this fellow . Keep it , my friend , and wear it as a badge of honor in your cap until I challenge it . --Give him the money . --And you , Captain , must make it up with him .
What did you find ?
Maybe you 'll see some little trinket you want to buy . I doubt you 've got enough money for little purchases like that .
Before sunrise tomorrow , we 'll kill anyone who escaped today . I want to thank all of you . You 're formidable . You fought not as if you served the cause but as though it were as much your personal fight as mine . You are all Hectors . Go on into the city . Embrace your wives and your friends . Describe your feats for them while they cry for joy . Their tears will wash the congealed blood from your wounds , and they will kiss those honorable cuts until they heal .
Petruchio , do whatever you like . You 've won .
I 've been too calm and even - tempered , unwilling to react angrily to these indignities . You have discovered this , and so you 've walked all over my patience . Know this : from now on , I 'm going to be my royal self again , powerful and frightening . My natural condition , which was as smooth as oil and soft as feathers , has lost me the respect that powerful people only pay to the similarly powerful .
Do n't say that , my lord .
Definitely . The one that looks like a fish is very marketable .
Soldiers , sir .
Come , let 's go . These revelations have overwhelmed her .
Go on ! I 'll follow .
We 're talking here in a public place . Either go someplace private , or talk it over rationally , or else just go away . Out here everybody can see us .
You can see that I 'm sick with love , and you 're taking care of me in just the right way ! But I did n't want you to think that I 'm hasty in my emotions . I was going to explain my feelings with a longer story .
Hippolyta , I wooed you with violence , using my sword , and got you to fall in love with me by injuring you . But I 'll marry you under different circumstances -- with extravagant festivals , public festivities , and celebration .
Please , Horatio , go with him .
Take his sword away from him .
orders you . Come , sweet nymphs , and help us celebrate the wedding of two true lovers . Do n't be late .
Making comparisons is odorous , Verges . Get on with your story .
Me neither . But I know why a snail carries its house on its back .
Then I 'll play the happy fool and get laugh lines on my face . I 'd rather overload my liver with wine than starve my heart by denying myself fun . Why should any living man sit still like a statue ? Why should he sleep when he 's awake ? Why should he get ulcers from being crabby all the time ? I love you , and I 'm telling you this because I care about you , Antonio -- there are men who always look serious . Their faces never move or show any expression , like stagnant ponds covered with scum . They 're silent and stern , and they think they 're wise and deep , important and respectable . When they talk , they think everybody else should keep quiet , and that even dogs should stop barking . I know a lot of men like that , Antonio . The only reason they 're considered wise is because they do n't say anything . I 'm sure if they ever opened their mouths , everyone would see what fools they are . I 'll talk to you more about this some other time . In the meantime , cheer up . Do n't go around looking so glum . That 's my opinion , but what do I know ? I 'm a fool . --Let 's go , Lorenzo . --Goodbye for now . I 'll finish my lecture after dinner .
Tonight we 're having a ceremonial banquet , and I want you to be there .
He 's still only in the crazy phase . The fool will go take care of the madman .
We were wronged , and when we tried to speak to the King about it , we were denied access to him by the very men who had wronged us most . We 're in this seemingly unbefitting armor because of the terrible recent violence -- the bloodshed from which is still visible on the ground -- and because of the terrible things happening now , every minute . We do n't want to harm peace in any way . We want instead to establish a peace that 's real and meaningful .
I 'll humor him when he learns how to behave . What should we do with all these rhyming fools that follow us from post to post ? Get out of here , my friend .
He never did harm that I heard of .
My Lord of Gloucester , in those busy days , which you 're bringing up now to prove we 're your enemies , we followed the lawful king . If you were king , we would do the same .
Why are you making such a scene ?
We seemed to have two separate bodies , but we had one heart . Do you want to destroy our old friendship by joining these men to insult your poor friend ? It 's not friendly , and it 's not ladylike . All women would be angry with you for doing it , even though I 'm the only one who 's hurt by it .
Freeze !
Oh great , here come the Capulets .
You 're right to imagine that being this country 's leader brings no pleasure . As queen , I have felt none .
It is , it is . Get out of here , be gone , go away ! It 's the lark that sings so out of tune , making such harsh noise . Some say the lark makes a sweet division between day and night . It 's not true because she separates us . Some say the lark traded its eyes with the toad . Oh , now I wish they had traded voices too ! Because the lark 's voice tears us out of each other 's arms , and now there will be men hunting for you . Oh , go away now . I see more and more light .
For a necklace your husband had him make .
Yes , thoroughly . Which one is the merchant ? And which one is the Jew ?
Who asked you to call her ? I 'm not asking you to call her .
My doors were locked and I was shut out , right ?
almost makes me want to stay here against my better judgment . I 'd better stop up my ears against this siren 's song .
Who 's shouting ?
She 's not a prostitute unless she 's using her ugliness to hide her promiscuity .
Oh , angels in heaven , protect me with your wings ! --What can I do for you , my gracious lord ?
My father ca n't think straight -- a hundred knights ! Just imagine the risk we run in letting him keep a hundred knights around ! He could use them to strong-arm us into bowing to every little whim of his , and keep us at his mercy . --Oswald , where are you ?
Double , double toil and trouble , Fire burn and cauldron bubble .
What marvelous music !
And can a person ever have too much of a good thing?- -Come on , sister , you can be the priest and marry us . --Give me your hand , Orlando . --What do you say , sister ?
If every letter on that page were a sun , I could n't see even one of them .
I agree with what he says , though I do n't care for the way he says it . It 's not possible for us to be friends anymore . We 're too different , in both our dispositions and actions . But if there were something that could join us together again , I would go to the ends of the world to find it .
And how 's my cousin , your wife ? And your prettiest daughter , my fair god - daughter Ellen ?
Why , what 's the problem ?
At dinner where ?
I 'm afraid she 's got dark hair , cousin Shallow !
No , it 's true , or if it 's not , I 'm a villain . You wake up to have fun , and you start work when you go to bed .
Romeo , get out of here . The citizens are around , and Tybalt is dead . Do n't stand there shocked . The Prince will give you the death penalty if you get caught . So get out of here !
Plant red wheat , Davy . But as for William the cook -- are n't there any young pigeons ?
Medicine is for the dogs . I wo n't have anything to do with it . Come , put my armor on me . Give me my lance . Seyton , send out the soldiers . Doctor , the thanes are running away from me . Come on , sir , hurry . Can you figure out what 's wrong with my country ? If you can diagnose its disease by examining its urine , and bring it back to health , I will praise you to the ends of the Earth , where the sound will echo back so you can hear the applause again . -- Pull it off , I tell you . What drug would purge the English from this country ? Have you heard of any ?
When the day turns cloudy , wise men put on their coats . When leaves fall from the trees , it means winter has arrived . When the sun sets , who 's too stupid to recognize it 's night ? When storms arrive early , you can expect the harvest will be damaged . So , if all turns out fine , as you say , it 's more than we deserve or I expect .
So there I was , caught in their evil net . Before I could even start processing the situation , they had started the ball rolling . I sat down and wrote out a new official document with new instructions . I wrote it in a bureaucrat 's neat handwriting . I used to think having nice handwriting was for servants , just like our politicians think , and I had to work hard to overcome that prejudice -- but it sure came in handy then . Do you want to know what I wrote ?
Why am I doing this ? That is the question . The short answer is this : we 're all sick . We 've eaten and drunk too much and stayed up all night , and now we have a burning fever whose only cure is bloodletting . Richard , our late King , was infected with this disease and died from it . But , my good Lord Westmoreland , I 'm not here as a physician , nor am I marching with this army as an enemy of peace . What I 'm doing is making a frightening show of war , to stop people from indulging all their vices . This will clear the hardening of the arteries which threatens to kill us all . Let me speak more plainly . I 've carefully considered the options , weighing the harm our armies are likely to cause against the harm we 're already suffering , and I find that our grievances are stronger than our offenses . We can see where things are headed , and the rough times ahead leave us with no choice but to step away from our quiet lives . We have a list of grievances which we can publish at the appropriate time . We offered that list to the King a long time ago , but we could never get an audience with him .
Is Scotland the same as when I left it ?
Are you talking to me , fair woman ? I do n't know you . I 've only been in Ephesus for two hours . Your talk is as strange to me as your town . I 'm trying with all my wits to figure out what you mean , but I ca n't understand a word of it .
It 's out of fashion to give lengthy explanations like that . We 're not going to introduce our dance by having someone dress up as Cupid , blindfolded and carrying a toy bow to frighten the ladies like a scarecrow . Nor are we going to recite a memorized speech to introduce ourselves . Let them judge us however they please . We 'll give them a dance and then hit the road .
While he was still in Rome , he deployed his forces in so many different disguises that all our spies were fooled .
Yes , you 're absolutely right about how worthy Brutus is and how much we need him . Let 's go , because it 's already after midnight , and we want him on our side before daylight .
Sir , these accusations should be answered .
That 's the one , sir . Do you know him ?
What an enormous thing for us to forget ! --Edmund , tell us , where 's the king ? And where 's Cordelia? --
On record , my gracious lord .
He did this in public ?
Did n't feel like it ?
Please , my king , be quiet . Look here , this is the entrance to his room . Be silent and go in . Do the deed that will make this island yours forever , and will make me , Caliban , your worshipful foot - licker .
Why , what are you afraid of ?
Here .
Let him run far away . If he stays in this country he 'll be found . And if he 's caught , he 'll be executed . The Duke of Cornwall , my master and patron , is arriving tonight . On his authority I 'll proclaim that whoever finds Edgar and helps bring the murderous coward to
Telling you where he 's sleeping is like telling you where I 'm lying .
Yes , we get the idea . The inconsistency does n't make me think that the reports are all wrong . I have no doubt about what they 're basically saying , and it 's frightening .
They 've said their prayers , and now they wait for death .
Yes , madam , he lies beyond my reach . I wish that no one could avenge my cousin 's death except me !
Get rid of this mad fool ! This is Lucentio , my only son and heir to all my lands .
Your life insurance ? That 's foolish .
Who , me ? No , I say . By God , I 've never been called such a thing in my own tavern before .
My Lord High Constable , the English lie within fifteen hundred paces of your tents .
Everybody may do as they please until seven o'clock tonight . In order to make your company even more enjoyable , I 'm going to keep to myself until suppertime . Until then , God be with you !
He 's going to look like a total idiot .
No , he means you 'll use makeup when you 're old .
I admit two sleeves .
That 's uncivilized and unnatural !
From the far east to the west Indies There is no jewel like Rosalind . Her worth is carried on the wind And it blows throughout the world , carrying the name of Rosalind . All the most beautiful paintings Are black when compared to Rosalind . Do n't think of any beauty But the beauty of Rosalind .
We are , my lord . We 've come to get the warrant so we can be let into his cell .
All to our advantage . So , in God 's name , let 's march . Hope with good cause is swift ; it flies as fast as a swallow . It turns kings into gods and men of lower rank into kings .
You 're as wise as you are beautiful .
Master , master ! I have news -- old news such as you never heard before !
Who 's calling me ?
But I have n't eaten anything yet .
How nice of you !
How many of them are there ?
Whew !
Are you my son ?
Truly , it all adds up to a serious story for Benedick . A conclusion , a conclusion : he is in love .
Yes , just now , my lord .
I 'm not . Go , coward that you are . Well , I 'll go hide the body in some hole until the duke gives orders for his burial . And when I get my reward , I 'll get out of here . The truth about this will come out , and I ca n't stick around then .
I 'm sorry , but they would n't let me in . But I got the following answer from her handmaid . Olivia 's not going to show her face for the next seven years -- not even to the sky itself . Instead , she 'll go around veiled like a nun , and once a day she 'll water her room with tears . She 's doing this out of love for her dead brother , whom she wants to keep fresh in her memory forever .
What are you saying ?
What handkerchief ? The one the Moor gave to Desdemona , which you asked me to steal so many times .
Here comes his body , mourned by Mark Antony , who , though he had no part in the killing , will benefit from his death -- receiving a share in the commonwealth , as you all will . With these words I leave . Just as I killed my best friend for the good of Rome , so will I kill myself when my country requires my death .
No ? How can a great prince like me forget the terrible wrongs you did me ? What were you thinking , to scold , punish , and violently imprison the heir to the English throne ? Was this nothing ? Should this be dipped in the river of forgetfulness and simply ignored ?
She 's more cunning than anyone can imagine .
Tell me how .
Now , Hamlet , where 's Polonius ?
" De hand . " And les doigts ?
Oh , Jew , what an upright judge this is ! What a wise judge !
Yes ! The will ! Let 's stay and hear the will !
He 's still in outer space .
All right , Friar Francis , let 's keep this short . Do a simple ceremony , and list all the particular duties of marriage later .
Well , then he must be alive .
What do you want to do , Desdemona ?
Is it young Romeo ?
Get lost ! You 've tortured me with these thoughts . It is better to be tricked completely than to only suspect a little .
Hello to you .
He just left , clearly upset about something .
Well , that ought to move even the most thickheaded of them . There they go , feeling so guilty they 're now tongue - tied -- they do n't have a thing to say . You go down toward the Capitol , and I 'll go this way . Undress the statues if they 're decorated in honor of Caesar .
When young Orlando left you last , he promised to return within an hour . He was pacing through the forest , thinking bittersweet thoughts of love , and listen what happened ! He looked to the side , and pay attention to what he saw then : under an oak tree -- whose lower branches were mossy with age and top branches ancient and brittle -- he saw a wretched beggar , with overgrown hair and beard , asleep on his back . A green and gold snake had wound itself around this man 's neck and was slowly making its way toward the man 's mouth . However , when it saw Orlando , it unwound itself and slunk away into a bush . But there happened to be a lioness crouching under that bush . Her cubs had nursed from her until she was dry , so she was ravenously hungry , and she was lying with her head on the ground , watching the man as cats do and waiting to see if he would wake up -- a lion wo n't prey on anything that seems dead . Seeing the lioness , Orlando approached the sleeping man . He discovered that the man was his older brother .
I remember .
Let 's shout up to Desdemona 's father , wake him , pester him , spoil his happiness , spread rumors about him in the streets , enrage his relatives , and irritate him endlessly . However real his happiness is , it will vanish in light of this .
I swore I 'd do three things . First , I can never tell anyone what box I choose . Second , if I choose the wrong box , I 'll never propose marriage for the rest of my life . Third , if I pick the wrong box , I 'll leave immediately .
It 's more than you deserve . But since you 're already teaching me how to flatter you , pretend I 've said goodbye already .
Open your gates .
Hitting his wife ?
She was worried about my absence , and about the fact that young Octavius and Mark Antony have grown so strong -- which I found out at the same time as the news of her death . She became full of despair and , when her attendants were away , swallowed burning coals .
The deal is closed . Banquo , if your soul is going to make it to heaven , tonight 's the night .
Where are my guys ? Where are my good fellows ?
Oh no , sir , I wo n't let him go , sir , not without a good reason .
I could do it easily now . He 's praying now . And now I 'll do it . And there he goes , off to heaven . And that 's my revenge . I 'd better think about this more carefully . A villain kills my father , and I , my father 's only son , send this same villain to heaven . Seems like I just did him a favor . He killed my father when my father was enjoying life , with all his sins in full bloom , before my father could repent for any of them . Only God knows how many sins my father has to pay for . As for me , I do n't think his prospects look so good .
Oh , are you going to leave me so unsatisfied ?
Oh , this is treachery ! Get out of here , good Fleance , run , run , run ! Someday you can get revenge . --Oh , you bastard !
Tell him I 'd like to die .
This is Signor Antonio .
I 'll do that .
My gracious lady , go , and take your money and belongings with you . For my part , I 'll reassign the Great Seal of England to you and will take it upon myself to protect you . Come , I 'll conduct you to the sanctuary .
I did n't call you .
This guy 's wise enough to play the fool , and only clever people can do that . He pays attention to the mood and social rank of the person he 's joking with , and also to the time of day . And he does n't let go of his target when a distraction appears . His job requires as much effort and skill as any wise man 's occupation could . And he shows he 's very smart at playing the fool , while smart people look stupid when they play the fool .
Why , sir , I told you an hour ago that the good ship Expedition was leaving tonight , but then the officer got you , and you decided to wait for the little rowboat Delay . Here 's the bail money you sent me to get .
I 've said nothing wrong .
If not , then I have no powers of observation .
No , if you start to cry , you 'll drive her mad .
Did n't I buckle this well ?
Yes , if I know the language and the letters .
" Some are born great -- "
Now , now : they 're good enough to die . Cannon fodder , cannon fodder -- they 'll fill a mass grave as well as better men would . They 're just men , just men .
That was a humorous message .
Well , there 's a chance he may do her some good . She 's a stubborn little brat .
Mistress , what 's your opinion of your sister ?
Do n't worry . Good Cinna , take this paper and be sure to lay it in the judge 's chair where Brutus sits , so he 'll find it . And throw this one in his window , and attach this one with wax to the statue of Brutus 's ancestor , old Brutus . When you 've finished all this , return to the porch of Pompey 's theater , where you 'll find us . Are Decius Brutus and Trebonius there ?
No , madam , we 've figured out the best things for me to wear tomorrow at the ceremony . So if it 's okay with you , I 'd like to be left alone now . Let the Nurse sit up with you tonight . I 'm sure you have your hands full preparing for the sudden festivities .
Oh , noble sir ! Your overwhelming kindness makes me weep . I willingly accept your offer and put my future in your hands .
I did n't see anybody use you for kicks . If I had seen something like that , I would have quickly pulled out my weapon . Believe me , I 'll draw my sword as quick as any other man if I see a fight starting and the law is on my side .
Oh , heaven , how did she get out ? My own flesh and blood rebels against me ! Fathers , never trust your daughters just because they act obedient and innocent . Are there magic spells that can lead young virgins astray ? Have you ever heard of anything like that , Roderigo ?
What do you think of his belief ?
You 'll be Pyramus 's father --I 'll play Thisbe 's father myself --Snug , the cabinetmaker , you 'll play the part of the lion . --So that 's everyone . I hope this play is well cast now .
This does n't look like a wedding .
God bless your lungs , good knight .
Anyone who says that is a lying piece of garbage . Who said that ?
You peasant , you 've killed me ! Villain , take my money . If you survive , make sure I have a decent burial . Give the letters I 'm carrying to Edmund , Earl of Gloucester . He 's with the English camp . Oh , early death !
Are you going to keep talking ? ( beats DROMIO OF EPHESUS )
Which he quickly allowed , given that you 're an obstacle to his lust .
Ah , I 've got it !
Well , do n't swear . Although you bring me joy , I ca n't take joy in this exchange of promises tonight . It 's too crazy . We have n't done enough thinking . It 's too sudden . It 's too much like lightning , which flashes and then disappears before you can say , " it 's lightning . " My sweet , good night . Our love , which right now is like a flower bud in the summer air , may turn out to be a beautiful flower by the next time we meet . I hope you enjoy the same sweet peace and rest I feel in my heart .
But you owe God a death .
A sensible fool .
Claudio ?
That 's strange .
The thane of Cawdor is still alive . Why are you giving me his title ?
Then if we lose this battle , you 'll be willing to be led in chains through the streets of Rome ?
First , my noble old friend , let me embrace you , who are more honorable than I can say .
Upon the king ! " Let 's lay everything upon the king : our lives , our souls , our debts , our anxious wives , our children , and our sins . " I must bear responsibility for all of it . What a painful condition responsibility is . It goes along with being born to greatness , but it makes you get badmouthed by every fool who only has his own suffering to care about . What infinite peace do king 's give up that private men enjoy ? What do kings have that private men do not , besides the pomp of their position ? And what is this useless ceremony of kings ? What kind of god is ceremony , which suffers more than its worshippers do ? What income , what profit does it bring in ? Oh , ceremony , only show me your value ! Why are you adored ? Do you amount to anything besides position , status , and ritual , which inspire awe and fear in others ? You 're less happy , being feared , than they are in fearing you . What do you get to drink , instead of sweet obedience , but poisonous flattery ? Try being sick , great greatness , and see if ceremony can cure you ! Do you think fiery fever can be put out by the windy puff of titles ? Will it be chased away by bowing and scraping ? You can command a beggar to bow on bended knee , but can you take possession of his health ? No , vain illusion , so intricately bound up with a king 's rest . I who understand you , gorgeous ceremony , because I 'm a king and I know that neither the balm , the scepter , and the ball , the robe layered in gold and pearls , the fancy title that precedes the king , the throne he sits on , nor the tide of pomp that beats upon the high shore of this world -- not all of these put together , not all of these laid down at night in an imperial bed , can cause the king to rest so soundly as does the miserable wretch who turns in at night with a full stomach and an empty mind , fed on the bread of his daily struggle . He never wakes to horrifying darkness , born of hell , but sweats in the hot sun from dawn to
Absolutely , if you can find a wife by then .
I 'll call for you soon . Stay inside .
Turn and face them and you 'll stop the pursuit . The cowardly pack barks loudest when the quarry is way out front . My good King , surprise the English and let them know what kind of kingdom you rule over . Self - love , my liege , is not so great a sin as self - neglect .
No , your handkerchief 's too little . Leave my head alone .
I 'm not a slut --I keep myself clean -- but I thank God I am ugly .
Words are a lot of useless breath , like lawyers who wo n't stop arguing for their sad clients , like a worthless inheritance , or like poor speech - makers who wo n't stop speaking . But give words a chance . Though they wo n't help in any other way , at least they make us feel better .
Hooray , I say . There 's my hat !
Everyone knows where a wasp wears its stinger . In its tail .
Hello there , Hal , you crazy boy ! What in the devil 's name are you doing in Warwickshire ? And Lord Westmoreland , I beg your pardon . I thought you were already at Shrewsbury .
I 'm trying to think of something , but I 'm not good at inventing clever things . It takes time . Ah , I 've got it . If a woman is pretty and smart , she uses her good looks to get what she wants .
Gentlemen , calm down . For the sake of your father 's memory , make peace .
You will love more than you are loved .
And like I am for Ganymede .
Ergo , Master Launcelot . But please do n't talk about Master Launcelot , old man . The young gentleman , submitting to the fates , the three sisters who control destiny , and other branches of learning like that , is deceased . Or , to put it in plain language , he 's gone to heaven .
grief - crazed mothers tear the clouds with their loud cries , just as the women of Judea did when Herod slaughtered their infants . What do you say ? Will you surrender and avoid all this or be called to account for the destruction of this town ?
Is he right ?
Oh friendly friar ! Where is my husband ? I remember very well where I should be , and here I am . Where is my Romeo ?
Or stuff what he says into their pockets .
Dorset , embrace Hastings . --Hastings , express your affection for the marquess of Dorset .
You 're talking in such a crazy way , sir .
My lord , I do n't think I cried out .
Brother , John of Lancaster , I 'm going to give you the honor of this generous act . Go to Douglas and set him free , with no ransom due . Let him do whatever he wants . His brave fighting against us today should be valued , even though he was our enemy .
I say " silver sound , " because musicians play to earn silver .
Sin from my lips ? You encourage crime with your sweetness . Give me my sin back .
No , I swear , madam . No woman got it from me , but an expert in civil law who refused three thousand ducats but asked instead for the ring , which I denied him . I watched him leave looking discontented , even though he had saved the life of my good friend . What could I say , my dear ? I had to send it to him . I was ashamed and wanted to show my good manners . I just could n't dishonor myself by acting ungrateful to him . Please forgive me , good lady . If you 'd been there , I think you would have begged me to give him the ring .
I will see you tomorrow , then . Now I have to leave . This wicked man will be brought face to face with Margaret , who I believe was hired by Don John to take part in this plot .
Oh , you have a wicked talent for wrongly quoting scripture , you really could corrupt a saint . You 've deeply harmed me , Hal , and God forgive you for it ! Before I met you , I was innocent . And now , if I can speak truly , I 'm no better than a sinner . I 've got to change my life , and I will change my life , by God . If I do n't , I 'm an evildoer . I wo n't be damned , not for any king 's son in the universe .
" No man must know . " What comes after that ? Look , the meter changes in her poem . " No man must know . " What if this someone were you , Malvolio ?
Not a penny , not a penny : you 're too impatient to endure adversity . Farewell ; give my regards to my kinsman Westmoreland .
He 's hot - tempered , and he might try to hit you with his staff . Try to get him to do that . That 'll allow me to stir up public sentiment against him here in Cyprus . I 'll get them so riled up that they 'll only calm down when Cassio 's fired . To get what you want , you need to get Cassio out of the way . If you do n't do that , things are hopeless for you .
That 's me . Your servant Kent . Where 's your servant Caius ?
They say Poins is smart .
Gracious brother , I will go with them . Perhaps a woman 's voice may do some good when some small detail proves to be holding things up .
Do n't joke , it might come true .
Come talk to me about this . If our father were dead you 'd receive half of his revenue forever , and you 'd have my undying love , Edgar . " Hmm , what 's this , a conspiracy ? " If our father were dead , you 'd receive half of his revenue forever " -- my son Edgar ? How did he bring himself to write such a thing ? How could he have even entertained these thoughts in his heart ? How did you get this letter ? Who delivered it ?
Well , then , what are you messing up ?
Well then , put the table cloth on and set the dish down . Go see if you can find Sneak 's band of musicians . Mistress Tearsheet wants to hear some music .
If you 're Prospero , give us the details of how you were saved , how you met us here , when we were just shipwrecked here three hours ago , when I lost --How painful the memory is ! -- my dear son Ferdinand
Yes , my lord ?
Your servants were fighting your enemy 's servants before I got here . I drew my sword to part them . Right then , that hothead Tybalt showed up with his sword ready . He taunted me and waved his sword around , making the air hiss . As we were trading blows , more and more people showed up to join the fight , until the Prince came and broke everyone up .
You just said they had to face her .
Good morning to you both . What do you mean I faked you out ?
How could I have ever thought that you would be faithful and true , even though your vows of love shook the heavens themselves -- you , who were unfaithful to Fulvia ? It was wild insanity to believe promises made by the mouth and not the heart . Such false vows are broken as soon as they are spoken .
Descend .
You call this sneering ?
Well , Petruchio , all this is very encouraging . I 'll visit my widow now , and if she proves difficult to manage , I 'll know how to make myself impossible .
I would rather feed his corpse to my dogs .
Will that description satisfy him ?
No , instead I 'll go to Benedick and advise him to fight his emotions . I 'll make up some awful things about my cousin and ruin her reputation . You do n't know how quickly affection can be killed with a single nasty word .
Indeed , I will , and gladly .
Oh God ! Pretending ? No one has ever faked passion as skillfully as this , then .
No , no , with God 's help , his son will be king .
Now he denies it a bit , and tries to laugh it off .
If you were my fool , uncle , I 'd have you beaten for getting old before your time .
In that case I wish you were as good a man as a fish seller .
Not until we part as friends .
Surrender , dog !
Oh , royal Caesar !
That 's me , I bet .
What is it , my general ?
No , it is not possible you should love the enemy of France , Kate . But in loving me , you would love the friend of France , for I love France so much that I will not part with a single village of it . I will have it all mine . And , Kate , when France is mine and I am yours , then France is yours and you are mine .
What are you saying ? Well , the point is , he 's lost a ship .
I know you not , old man . Get down on your knees and pray , for white hair does n't sit well on a fool and a clown . I have dreamed about such a man for a long time : a man so swollen with excess , so old and so obscene . But now that I have awakened , I despise that dream . Let your body lessen , and your manners increase ; leave behind your overindulgence , and know that the grave gapes three times as wide for you than any other man . Do n't answer me with a foolish joke . Do not assume that I am what I was ; for God knows , I have turned my back on my former self , and I will do the same to those who were my companions . When you hear that I am as I was , then come to me , and you will once again be what you were : the teacher and nurse to my wild , riotous ways . Until then , I banish you , on pain of death , as I have done to the other men who once misled me . Do not
Come on , then . He may recover yet .
Are your tears wet ? Yes , indeed they are . Please do n't cry . If you have poison for me , I 'll drink it . I know you do n't love me . If I remember , your sisters did me wrong for no reason . But you did n't , even though you had every reason .
You did n't come up with a very good proof .
What does " pourquoi " mean ? Does it mean I will or I wo n't ? Oh , I wish I 'd spent as much time learning languages as I spent on fencing , dancing , and bear - baiting ! If only I 'd taken school more seriously !
Put the crown here on my pillow .
Her ladies - in - waiting - - like Nereides , or mermaids -- tended to Cleopatra as she watched them , and their graceful movements added to the beauty of the scene . It seemed as if a mermaid were steering . The silken sails and ropes swelled in the wind , expertly handled by the ladies ' soft hands . People on the wharves could smell exotic perfume wafting from the barge as it passed them . All the people came out to see her , and Antony , waiting for her in the marketplace , was left alone . Even the air itself would have gone to look at Cleopatra , if that would n't have caused an unnatural vacuum in the atmosphere .
" And wanted to see you with laces crisscrossed over your legs . "
Well , gentlemen , that 's my decision . As you know , next Sunday my daughter Katherina is to be married . Therefore , the Sunday after , Bianca shall be married to you -- if you obtain that guarantee . If not , she 'll be married to Signior Gremio . And so I thank you both and bid you goodbye .
My protector , Richard , insists on it .
Yes .
How did you offend him ?
This is what happens when you act rashly . Did you notice how the queen 's guilty relatives turned pale when they heard about Clarence 's death ? Oh , they continually urged the king to do it . God will revenge it . But come , lords , will you come with me to Edward 's room to comfort him ?
Ha ! I would n't do that for the whole wide world .
Thank you for saying that -- here 's some money to express my gratitude . Since I survived , it 's easier for me to imagine he survived too , and what you say gives me a reason to hope for the best . Do you know this area we 're in ?
Yes , he said something in Greek .
Is that possible ?
It sounds like the beginning of an old folktale .
What 's happening now , Lucillius ? Is Cassius nearby ?
Ca n't I say something ?
Then they 're cold friends to me . What are they doing in the north when they should be in the west serving their king ?
I ca n't stand your arrogance any longer .
There are n't three people in all of Egypt who could do better .
I 'm telling you , he 's taken his bow and arrows and , with a pure love and a worried brain , has gone to take a nap .
It 's strange that human nature makes us grieve for the very thing we 've been trying to achieve .
Why do you look so depressed today , your Grace ?
Do you want to know the truth ? If this woman had n't been rich , she would n't have been given a Christian burial .
Men must be getting wiser every day ; that 's the first time I 've heard that rib - breaking was appropriate entertainment for ladies .
With all my heart , I 'll go right away .
The court has sent for us .
No , not like before .
Are you calling me a fool , boy ?
The king wants to speak with Cornwall . The father wants to speak with his daughter . He orders them -- he begs them . Did you inform them of that ? This is unbelievable ! " Passionate " ? The " passionate " duke ? Tell the hot-headed duke that I. .. But no , not yet . Maybe he 's not feeling well . When we 're ill we ca n't carry out our duties as well as when we 're healthy . When our bodies are out of order , our minds ca n't function properly . I 'll hold off , and subdue my impulsive temper , which makes me judge a sick man as if he were well . A curse on my royal power ! Why should he sit here like this ? The fact that they punished him convinces me that Regan and the duke are avoiding me on purpose . I want my servant released . Go tell the duke and his wife I 'll speak to them right now , at once . Tell them to come here and hear me out , or else I 'll beat a drum at their bedroom door until they ca n't sleep any more .
Give me that pickax and the crowbar . Here , take this letter . Early in the morning deliver it to my father . Give me the light . Swear on your life , I command you , whatever you hear or see , stay away from me and do not interrupt me in my plan . I 'm going down into this tomb of the dead , partly to behold my wife 's face . But my main reason is to take a precious ring from her dead finger . I must use that ring for an important purpose . So go on your way . But if you get curious and return to spy on me , I swear I 'll tear you apart limb by limb and spread your body parts around to feed the hungry animals in the graveyard . My plan is wild and savage . I am more fierce in this endeavor than a hungry tiger or the raging sea .
Shylock is my name .
trees , stones , and rivers come to him by playing music . There 's nothing in the world that can resist music . The man who ca n't be moved by the harmonious melodies is fit only for treason , violence , and pillage . His soul is as dull as night and dark as the underworld . Nobody like that should be trusted . Pay attention to the music .
Douglas is alive , and so is your brother , for now . But as for your son , my lord --
Then sure ones .
All that 's left is for us to split up our armies . You , my son John , and you , Westmoreland , head towards York as quickly as you can . Confront Northumberland and that churchman the Archbishop , who , I gather , are raising armies against us . You and I , Harry my son , will head for Wales to fight Glendower and Mortimer . The rebellion in this land will break apart once it meets battles like the one we fought today . And since we have accomplished our business so well , let 's not quit until everything has been won .
Come , take away the plaintiffs . By now the sexton will have reformed Signior Leonato of the matter . And , gentlemen , please do not forget to specify , whenever it is convenient , that I am an ass .
Will you listen to me , Roderigo ?
You 're not thinking of leaving tonight , surely ?
You do n't wish we had more help from England anymore , cousin ?
What then , sick ?
We caught her in our trap , madam , I 'm sure of it .
Actually he 's a die with no dots , since he 's nothing-- he 's dead .
And I hope Hymen will give us better luck than Hero got .
Yes , indeed , and all the King 's men , the Duke of Milan and his fine son too .
My uncle' s back . Free Westmoreland , his hostage . Uncle , what 's happening ?
And here he comes , puffing himself up like a turkey .
One way or another , what 's going to happen is going to happen .
I agree --
Then have your servants bring him out .
For shame , bring Juliet out here . Her bridegroom is here .
My lord , please listen to me .
" Here , sir ! Here , sir ! Here , sir ! Here , sir ! " You stupid , unpolished dolts ! I get no service , no respect , no attention ! Where is the fool I sent on ahead ?
Here 's our most important guest .
Like a good doctor .
Oh , God help me ! How I 'm being attacked ! What kind of game is this ?
Good morning to all these lovely people .
You advise me like a fool . That 's the way to lose him .
Peter , did you ever see anything like it ?
What 's that ?
What 's that paper you were reading ?
Why , sweetheart ? Is there a hidden meaning in this ?
Three times now , Henry Bolingbroke has raised an army against mine . And three times , I turned him back from the banks of the River Wye , and the sandy - bottomed River Severn . I sent him home , bootless and beaten by foul weather .
That thrust might really have hurt me if I did n't have this armor on under my cloak . Now let 's see what you 've got on .
Here , at your service . Here comes my lord .
Give me my veil . Come , put it over my face . We 're going to hear Orsino 's pleas again .
Sir , I believe this piece of trash , Bianca , has something to do with all this trouble . --Hang in there , Cassio . --Come here , bring the light . Do you recognize this face ? Oh , no , it 's my friend and countryman , Roderigo . --Yes , it 's Roderigo !
Invite all the guests on this list .
Oh God ! If only we could read the book of destiny ! We 'd see how time changes everything , bringing mountains low and melting the land -- which is tired of being solid and firm -- into the sea . We 'd see how the beach is sometimes too wide for even the tide to conquer . We 'd see how blind luck can make mockeries of men , and how change can affect you in countless ways .
Come , let 's go to the dance . This just may cheer me up . Claudio , the young upstart , was responsible for keeping me from gaining power over my brother . If there 's any way I can spoil his life , I 'll be overjoyed . You 'll both help me , right ?
I 'll wait for her here and when she comes I 'll take a novel approach with her . If she rants , I 'll tell her that she sings as sweetly as a nightingale . If she glares , I 'll say her brow is as clear as roses newly washed with morning dew . If she is silent and wo n't speak at all , I 'll praise her chattiness and say she speaks with piercing eloquence . If she orders me to go , I 'll thank her warmly as if she 'd just offered to put me up for a week . If she refuses my proposal , I 'll tell her how much I 'm looking forward to the announcement and the wedding . But here she comes . Here goes !
And everyone can say " welcome , " which is just a word .
Feste , the jester , my lord . Olivia 's father used to like him . He 's somewhere else in the house .
Murder has no tongue , but miraculously it still finds a way to speak . I 'll have these actors perform something like my father 's murder in front of my uncle . I 'll watch my uncle . I 'll probe his conscience and see if he flinches . If he becomes pale , I know what to do . The ghost I saw may be the devil , and the devil has the power to assume a pleasing disguise , and so he may be taking advantage of my weakness and sadness to bring about my damnation . I need better evidence than the ghost to work with . The play 's the thing to uncover the conscience of the king .
No , my lord .
I 'd better not drink now . I 'll drink later .
That young man 's classy . " Rain odors . " That 's good .
Pyramus is coming up to the wall . Be quiet !
When a person tries in good faith , even if he fails he cannot be blamed . I do n't want to play now . Give me my fishing rod . We 'll go to the river . With my music playing in the background , I 'll lure fish . My hook will go through their slimy jaws and as I pull them up I 'll imagine each one is Antony . I 'll say , " Aha ! I caught you ! "
Would you rather hear a love song or a song about the good life ?
I 'm all set .
I think it 's two o'clock .
You are Dromio , you are my servant , and you are yourself .
Listen , my lord .
I 'm glad that my weak words have provoked even this small show of protest from you .
If the oldest grief is the most revered , then mine should have the most weight here . Let my sorrow have the upper hand . If you can allow for comparison , consider your losses next to mine . I had an Edward till a Richard killed him , and I had a Harry till a Richard killed him . On your side , you had an Edward till a Richard killed him , and you had the young Richard , York , till a Richard killed him . So , I guess we 're equal .
There are no thugs in my family , whore ! Read your history ! We Slys came over with Richard the Conqueror . Oh , the hell with it . I ca n't be bothered . Shut up !
No , you have to forget all that now .
Everything 's fine , now , sweetheart . Go back to bed . -- I 'll see to it personally that your wounds are treated . Lead him off .
Oh I hope that 's not true !
As for my tongue , I 'll manage it .
Monster , use your fingers . Help us carry these clothes to where my barrel of wine is hidden , or I 'll kick you out of my kingdom . Go on , take them .
I recognize something about that voice . Is n't that the king ?
If it 's okay with you , you should not press your grievances any further , but realize that the current situation should be enough to reconcile you .
Do it by letting your eyes wander freely . Look at other beautiful girls .
Assemble our squadrons on the other side of the hill , in sight of Caesar 's navy . From there we 'll be able to see how many ships he has and plan accordingly .
Yes , my lord .
I 'd rather ask him to hate me than ask such a good commander to accept such a worthless , drunk , stupid officer as myself . Drunk ? Babbling senselessly ? Squabbling ? Swaggering ? Swearing ? Ranting and raving to my own shadow ! Oh , wine is the devil !
I 'm sorry , Bianca . All this time I 've been depressed and had problems on my mind . When I get some free time I 'll make it up to you . Sweet Bianca , would you copy this embroidery pattern for me ?
I beg your pardon . Here 's some money to make up for that blow I gave you . Has any intelligent friend of ours offered a reward to whoever catches the traitor ?
And then he said to tell you that tonight he dreamed the duke of Gloucester cut off his helmet -- that is , his head . Besides that , he says that two meetings are going to be held tomorrow , and something may be decided at one of them that may make you and him , who are at the other , sorry . He wants to know if instead of going to the meeting , you 'll get on your horse and ride north with him to get out of harm 's way .
I 'm afraid it will raise your blood pressure . What do you say to an ox stomach , nicely broiled ?
" The custom of respecting the elderly makes it hard for the young and healthy to live well , and keeps us without our inheritance until we are so old we ca n't enjoy our happiness anyway . The power of the elderly is starting to feel like a silly and foolish slavery to me , and they only enjoy that power because we let them have it .
Do you want me to lie , madam ?
What if she 's pretty but stupid ?
Then , Lord Westmoreland , take this document . It lists our grievances . If each complaint listed here is addressed , and if everyone on our side , both here and elsewhere , is granted a full pardon and immediate satisfaction of our demands , then we 'll return to our own boundaries again and work together for the cause of peace .
You 're snoring , but it sounds like you 're talking . There 's meaning in your snoring .
Will you give me some money , captain ?
My nation ? What is my nation ? It 's a villain and a bastard and a coward and a rascal . What is my nation ? Who talks of my nation ?
I swear , somehow the fool has been cheated out of all my money . They say that this town is full of deception -- illusionists that can fool the eye , dark sorcerers who can bewitch your mind , soul-killing witches who can disfigure your body , disguised swindlers , fast-talking fakers , and all kinds of other unchecked sins . If this is true , then I 'll be leaving all the sooner . I 'll go to the Centaur to find this servant of mine --I fear that my money is n't safe .
This man , one O . Signieur Dew , must be a gentleman . Consider my words , O . Signieur Dew , and take note : O . Signieur Dew , you 'll be killed with my sword unless you pay me an absurd amount of money for your ransom .
I 'm sorry I was n't a better host for you , sir .
Orlando , do you really believe that this boy can do everything he 's promised ?
Oh no , Sir Richard , my nephew cannot be told about the generous and kind offer the King made .
Your Majesty shall mock at me . I cannot speak your England .
Yes , and that 's surprising , because lovers are usually early .
Clerk , draw up a document to make his gift official .
Why do you spit at me ?
Like medicine for a sick man .
Come on , Sir Andrew . If we 're still awake after midnight , then we 're up early in the morning . And the doctors say it 's healthy to get up early --
I 'll unload two big bullets on her , Sir John .
Death is exactly what I want . I hope you 're strong enough to do it .
I remember one critic said there was no vulgar language to spice up the dialogue , and showing off on playwright 's part . That critic called it an excellent play , containing things to reflect upon as well as sweet music to enjoy . I loved one speech in particular . It was when Aeneas told Dido about Priam 's murder . If you happen to remember this scene , begin at line -- let me see , how does it go ? The rugged Pyrrhus , strong as a tiger -- No , that 's wrong ; it begins like this : Savage Pyrrhus , whose black armor was As dark plans , and was like the night When he crouched inside the Trojan Horse , Has now smeared his dark armor With something worse . From head to foot He 's now covered in red , decorated horribly With the blood of fathers , mothers , daughters , sons . The blood is baked to a paste by fires he set in the streets , Fires that lend a terrible light to his horrible murders . Boiling with anger and fire , And coated thick with hard - baked blood , His eyes glowing like rubies , the hellish Pyrrhus Goes looking for grandfather Priam . Sir , take it from there .
Hello , my lord , how have you been doing lately ?
Ha ha ! This man 's rhymes are terrible !
Damn it , show me what you 're going to do for her . Will you cry ? Fight ? Stop eating ? Cut yourself ? Drink vinegar ? Eat a crocodile ? I 'll do all that . Did you come here to whine ? To outdo me by jumping into her grave so theatrically ? To be buried alive with her ? So will I. And if you rattle on about mountains , then let them throw millions of acres over us . It will be so high a peak that it scrapes against heaven and makes Mount Ossa look like a wart . See ? I can talk crazy as well as you .
Because if many of us go there , the hostility between us may break out again , which would be very dangerous with the young prince so newly crowned . When you have a situation where everyone seems free to take off on his or her own , it 's important that the heads of state keep a low profile . We would n't want the prince or his new authority to be undermined by squabbling factions .
Tell us what entertainment you 've prepared for the evening . Which plays , what music ? How will we pass the time without some entertainment ?
You low - life , nosy , busybody fool , goodbye . I thought you were somebody more important . You 've gotten what you deserve . I guess you found out it 's dangerous to be a busybody . Stop wringing your hands . Sit down and let me wring your heart instead , which I will do if it 's still soft enough , if your evil lifestyle has not toughened it against feeling anything at all .
Still the same old Cassius !
" D' elbow . "
Some games are painful , but their discomfort makes them more fun . Some kinds of lowly activities are done for noble reasons . And you can do poor things that lead to rich results . This hard work would be boring and nasty to me , but I 'm working for a mistress who makes me enjoy my labor . Oh , she 's ten times nicer than her father is mean , and he 's the height of crabbiness . I have thousands of logs to take away and pile up , on strict orders from him . My sweet darling cries when she sees me work and tells me that such a wonderful man never performed such lowly tasks before . These sweet thoughts relieve me and refresh me , especially when I 'm slaving away busily .
Hold on , Friar . Father , are you giving me your daughter freely ?
More rushes ; more rushes .
Good heavens , it 's my father . He does n't recognize me because he 's half - blind -- or more than half - blind , somewhere between half-blind and totally blind . I 'll play a little game with him .
What would you like me to do at Salisbury ?
Oh , go to hell , you loud-mouthed bastard !
Are n't you disturbed when the earth itself is shaking and swaying as if it were a flimsy thing ? Cicero , I 've seen storms in which the angry winds split old oak trees , and I 've seen the ocean swell , rage , and foam , as if it wanted to reach the storm clouds , but never before tonight , never until now , have I experienced a storm that drops fire . Either there are wars in heaven , or else the world , too insolent toward the gods , provokes them to send destruction .
Where is that poor rash man ?
My songbird , we have beaten them to their beds . What do you think , girl ! Even though there are some gray hairs among the brown , I still have a brain and muscles that will let me compete with younger men . Look at this man . Show him favor by letting him kiss your hand . Kiss it , my warrior .
You 're not going , sir .
I 'll think it over . Tomorrow , I 'll let you know what I 've decided and what answer you should deliver to the king of England .
I will , Caesar .
Please , your Grace , tell me what crime I have committed . If I know my own thoughts and desires , and I 'm not dreaming or crazy -- which I 'm sure I 'm not -- then , dear uncle , I 've never had so much as a half-formed thought that would have offended you .
You should take the money now . If you do n't , you might never see the money or the necklace ever again .
That 's the way to show me friendship . Take this . Live and be prosperous . Farewell , good fellow .
Come on . Obey my orders . Your muscles are all limp and lifeless .
Not since the days of widow Dido .
Madam ?
I never saw him like this before . There must be some magic in that handkerchief . I 'm miserable that I lost it .
He 's going after a young widow . He says he 'll court and win her in a day .
I use it all the time , since it 's all that I have . Who 's that ?
This is the inventory of the money , silverware , dishes , and jewels that are still in my possession . It 's an exact list . Not even trivial things were left out . Where 's Seleucus ?
Get out , insolent eunuch ! Silence ! She has betrayed me and shall die .
Is this possible , my lord ?
Thank you for saying that , your Worship , but we 're just the poor duke 's officers . But truly , if I were as tedious as a king , I would give everything to you , your Worship .
But that 's been my plan for a year now , so there 's no point in telling you all this again . That 's not the issue at hand . So tell me , my noble kinsman Westmoreland , what my royal advisors decided last night about this important undertaking .
I may be as poor as Job , but I 'm not as patient . You may be able to throw me in jail because of my poverty , but some people might have slight reservations about that .
Believe me , King of Illusions , I made a mistake . Did n't you tell me that I 'd be able to recognize the man by the Athenian clothes he was wearing ? So far I 've done exactly what I was supposed to do --I put the love potion on an Athenian 's eyes . And so far I 'm pleased with the way things have turned out , since I find all of this commotion very entertaining .
Go talk to him , father .
Only someone who does n't feel this pain could tell me to ignore it . I know his eyes are worshiping some other woman , or why would n't he be here ? Sister , you know he promised to give me a necklace . I would gladly do without that if he would only stay faithful to me . Even the best jewel can be tarnished . Gold , however , ca n't be corrupted -- though it can be worn down if it 's touched too often . And no man with a reputation will tarnish that name with lies and bad behavior . Since my beauty no longer pleases my husband , I 'll weep away what 's left and then die with weeping .
You have to take your chances . Either do n't choose at all , or swear beforehand that if you choose incorrectly you 'll never talk about marriage to any woman again . Think about it carefully .
My lord , we were sent for .
Why , Buckingham , I say I want to be king .
Heaven knows .
I hope this new rumor is a lie , like the gossiping widow 's claim that she was sorry her third husband died ! But it 's true--I do n't want to get all mushy and go on and on , but the good Antonio , the honest Antonio -- oh , if I only had a title good enough to match his ! --
Yes . I wish you 'd never met him .
What 's going on , my love ? Why are you so pale ? Why have your rosy cheeks faded so quickly ?
If he said that , then I hope his malicious soul rots in hell forever . He 's lying through his teeth ! She was too attached to her filthy marriage ever to do a thing like that !
Who 's there ?
No , that 's not it -- it 's because of what happens in the marriage bed .
No. The meat lacks something that I have .
What , my dear lord ?
You can tell from his eyes that his life is almost over .
We 're in a bit of a hurry , Leonato .
Good madam , be patient .
Oh my God , what a terrible world this is !
Farewell , farewell ! Give me one kiss , and I 'll go down .
It is .
I 'm delighted .
And not one of them is smart enough to stop himself from going bald .
He and Lepidus are at Caesar 's house .
To bed ! " Yes , sweetheart , I 'll come to you . "
I think you 've been charmed by his foolishness . I 've never heard of a Prince who was so wild and loose . But however he wants to seem , before night falls I will embrace him with these soldier 's arms , and he will tremble at my affection . Get ready , get ready quickly ! And friends , partners , soldiers , take a moment to think for yourselves about what you have to do . I 'm not a good enough speaker to motivate you .
Look at you , thrashing about like a blind man . A boy robbed you , but you 'll beat up the post instead .
Good night . Go to bed and get some rest . I 'm sure you need it .
She 's obedient -- a fine lady . Please , my lord , call her back .
My good boy , give the other sailors a pep talk -- and do it fast , before we 're shipwrecked . Hurry , hurry !
Your cock is not for me . It has no fighting spirit .
And you saw how the beggar ran from the mutt ? That 's authority ! Even a dog is obeyed sometimes . You stupid cop , stop your violence ! Why are you whipping that whore ? You should be whipping yourself , since you lust after her and yearn to do the same thing for which you 're punishing her . One criminal punishes another . Poor men 's sins are much more noticeable than rich men 's . Cover up a crime with gold and the arm of justice ca n't touch it . But dress the crime in rags and it 's caught easily . Everyone sins . You ca n't blame anyone for it anyone , I say . I 'll vouch for that . Believe me , my friend , since I have the power to stop the prosecutors . Get yourself some glass eyes , and pretend to see things you ca n't , like a crooked politician . Now , now , now , now . Pull off my boots . Harder , harder . Like that .
It 's my daughter ! Oh , my daughter !
Thank you . Show me the way .
Do whatever you think best . Is he in his royal garments ?
Good morning , old Sir Thomas Erpingham ! A nice , soft pillow would be a more suitable place to lay that good white head than France 's hard , cold ground .
Oh , mischief has ruined our plans !
You both have honorable reputations , and it 's too bad you 've been enemies for so long . But what do you say to my request ?
for the other men , we can make them believe anything we choose . They 'll set their watches to whatever time we say .
Well , obviously they do n't . If there were anything inside their heads , they could never wear such heavy helmets .
Go , go , poor soul . I do n't envy your position . If you want to make me happy , do n't wish yourself harm .
My only sin was loving you too much .
Also , he 's left you all his walkways -- in his private gardens and newly planted orchards --on this side of the Tiber River . He 's left them to you and to your heirs forever -- public pleasures in which you will be able to stroll and relax . Here was a Caesar ! When will there be another like him ?
Whether you 're really him or whether this is some magic trick like I was recently subjected to , I do n't know . Your heart beats like you were real , and ever since I saw you , I feel my mind becoming sane again , released from its earlier insanity . There must be a strange explanation for this -- if it 's true . I surrender your dukedom and beg you to forgive me all my crimes . But how is it possible that Prospero 's alive and well and living on this island ?
Oh , I did ? Take that , then . If you want more beatings like that , just accuse me of lying again .
Ca n't Lord Stanley sleep ?
In the woods where you and I used to lounge around on the pale primroses , telling each other sweet secrets -- that 's where Lysander and I will meet .
I know that she is worthy of that love .
Good fool , good jester , I 'll make it worth your while if you get me a candle , and a pen , ink and paper . You have my word as a gentleman that I 'll always be grateful to you .
I spoke angry , foul words to him , and with that I will kiss you .
The thing is definitely going to be sold . Come with me . If you like what you see of the land , the profit that 's possible , and this rustic life , I 'll be your faithful servant , and buy the place with your gold right away .
Your lieutenant , Cassio . Oh , if I 've got any influence over you at all , please patch things up with him . In my judgment , this man truly loves you , and his mistake was innocent rather than wicked . Please call him and tell him to come back here .
Is the King back from Wales , my noble lord ?
They deserved to keep their heads more than some people who have managed to keep their positions . But come , my lord , let 's go .
I get whipped like a dog for telling the truth , while Lady Bitch gets to stand around the fire and stink the place up with her false words .
No , I said his horse is coming , with him on its back .
Come on , we have to follow the leaders of the dance .
I bet you 'll be able to . They 'll swear they gave the rings to men . But we 'll deny it and outswear them too . --
If I 'm not ashamed of my soldiers , then I 'm a pickled fish . I 've taken terrible advantage of my position . I 've pressed a hundred and fifty soldiers into service , and for that , the treasury has paid me over three hundred pounds . I recruited only well-to-do property owners and rich farmer 's sons . I looked for men who were engaged to be married , who were already halfway through their preparations . I found a whole supply of pampered cowards who would rather listen to the devil than a military march ; who feared the sound of gunfire
I 'm listening to you only because I 've got nothing better to do .
The enemy is west of this forest , and less than a mile away . They look powerful , and , from the amount of space they 're taking up , I 'd say they have close to thirty thousand soldiers .
Here is a friar who 's trembling , sighing and weeping . We took this pickax and this shovel from him , as he was walking from this side of the graveyard .
If you lose your job because of little flirtations like this , you 'll wish you had n't been so courteous with her . Oh , how nice , you 're kissing your own hand , one finger at a time ? I wish those fingers were enema tubes ! --
I could make the same boast even if I had a pig as my mistress .
Yes , you already hurt me in the church , in the town , and in the fields . Shame on you , Demetrius ! Your behavior is an insult to all women . We cannot fight for love as men can . We should be pursued and courted . We were n't made to do the pursuing .
Hang there on this tree , you lines of poetry , and bear witness to my love . And you , goddess of the moon , queen of the night -- with your chaste eye , from your pale home up above -- watch your huntress , who has the power to control my life . Oh , Rosalind , these trees will be my books --I 'll write my thoughts down on their bark . That way , everyone who passes through this forest will find your virtues everywhere . Run , run , Orlando , on every tree carve praises of her beauty , her virtue , and her inexpressibility .
Casca will tell us what 's the matter .
Listen , my lords --
This I 'd like to see .
Here , my good lord . What 's wrong , your highness ?
where we quietly buried you , has opened up its heavy marble jaws to spit you out again . What could it mean that you have put on your armor again , you corpse , and have come back to look at the moon , making the night terrifying and stirring us humans with supernatural fears ? Why ? What do you want from us ? What should we do ?
Quick work for schoolwork ! How do you explain that ? I though you said your precious Bianca loved no one better than you , Lucentio !
Lead me to where you 're standing .
Good cousin , good Meg , good Ursula , come help me get dressed .
I would not .
But who -- ah , the sadness -- had seen the muffled queen --
It 's fitting that Brutus be found like this . Thank you , Brutus , for proving my prediction true .
The name suits your fierceness .
Then you have to say , " I take you , Rosalind , to be my lawfully wedded wife . "
And you ca n't deny evidence and argument --They 've been around since Noah 's ark .
If you really are Sir Rowland 's son , as you 've just whispered to me -- and I can absolutely see the likeness in your face -- you are truly welcome here . I am the duke who loved your father . Come to my cave and tell me the rest of your story . --Good old man , you are as welcome here as your master is . Give him your arm . Give me your hand , and explain your situation to me .
If I can just get him to drink one more glass after what he 's drunk already , he 'll be as argumentative and eager to fight as a little dog . That fool Roderigo , all twisted up inside with love , has been drinking toasts to Desdemona by the gallon , and he 's on guard duty.I 've gotten the rest of the guards drunk , as well as several gentlemen from Cyprus who are quick to take offense . Now I 'll get Cassio to do something in front of all these drunkards that will offend everyone on the island . Here they come . If the future turns out as I hope it will , I 'm all set for success .
I ca n't say the words .
Yes , at Philippi .
All right , then . Mouldy , Bullcalf , Feeble , and Shadow .
You are never trouble to this house , your Grace . It 's comforting when trouble departs . But when you leave , you take happiness with you and leave sorrow in its place .
Why should this place be a desert Just because there are no people in it ? No , I 'll hang these poems on every tree , And they will voice the thoughts of a city . Some will be about how man 's brief life is spent in wandering , his entire life contained in the width of an open hand . Some poems will be about betrayals Committed by friends . But on the prettiest branches Or at the end of every sentence I 'll write " Rosalinda , " Teaching everyone who can read that the essence of every spirit Is contained in this one woman . Heaven commanded Nature To fill her one body With all the graces that women contain . Nature took Helen 's beautiful face , but not her fickle heart ; Cleopatra 's majesty , The best of Atalanta , And unhappy Lucretia 's modesty .
Anything .
Yes , he will , and the queen as well .
Titinius is surrounded by horsemen who are quickly approaching him , yet he spurs onward . Now they 're almost on him . Now , Titinius ! Now some dismount . Oh , he gets down too . He 's taken .
This paper tells me of ten thousand Frenchmen who lie dead on the battlefield . Among them are one hundred twenty-six princes and standard - bearing nobles . Add to these eight thousand four hundred knights , squires , and brave gentlemen , five hundred of whom were given the title of knight only yesterday . Among the ten thousand the French have lost only sixteen hundred are mercenaries . The rest of the dead are princes , barons , lords , knights , squires , and gentlemen of birth and rank . The names of those of their nobles that lie dead : Charles Delabreth , high constable of France ; Jaques of Chatillon , admiral of France ; the master of the crossbows , Lord Rambures ; Great Master of France , the brave Sir Guichard Dolphin , John duke of Alencon , Anthony duke of Brabant , the brother of the duke of Burgundy , and Edward duke of Bar . Of brave earls , Grandpre and Roussi , Fauconberg and Foix , Beaumont and Marle , Vaudemont and Lestrale . Here was a
That 's why I wish my sister did n't have a name , sir .
Look , here are the boxes , prince . If you choose the one that contains my picture , we 'll be married right away . But if you fail , you have to leave immediately . No pleas will be allowed .
Is that the law ?
About seven groats and two pence .
I only need to show your sword to Caesar and tell him about your death to get into his good favor .
Yes . He feels so bad and humble that I feel bad along with him . My love , call him back in here .
Oh , right , good Catesby . Tell him to gather together the greatest army he can muster in a hurry and meet me right away at Salisbury .
No , my good lord . So be calm .
I did n't refuse you .
How are you , Roderigo ?
Good night , my noble lord .
That 's enough of that . Yes , it 's true .
Are you scared ?
Romeo will answer the challenge .
I agree with all of them , and I admit that they 're legitimate . I swear , on my family 's honor : my father 's intentions have been misunderstood , and some of his subordinates have overstepped their authority in executing his orders . Sir , we will make good on the wrongs that have been done to you , I swear on my soul . If this pleases you , then disperse your armies and send them back where they came from ; we shall do the same . And here , where both armies can see us , we 'll embrace and drink a friendly toast to one another . The soldiers will go home with evidence that we 're friends once again .
I 'd obey even if she were my mother ten times over . Is there anything else I can do for you ?
Get off , you serving wench ! You ruffian ! You fat old hag ! I 'll beat you on the backside !
God bless you ! Tell me , my good friend , what is that light over there ? The one that vainly lights up the darkness for worms and skulls without eyes ? It looks to me like it 's burning in the Capulet tomb .
Then hear me , gracious sovereign , and all you peers who owe your lives and duty to this imperial throne . There is no legal obstacle to your Highness 's claim to France except the following rule , which the French cite from King Pharamond : In terram Salicam mulieres ne succedant . The French wrongly interpret " the Salic land " to mean France , and they cite Pharamond as the founder of this law that bars female succession to the throne . But their own authors assert that the Salic land is in Germany , between the Sala and the Elbe rivers , where Charles the Great left behind certain French settlements after conquering the Saxons . The French settlers despised the German women because they were unfaithful to their husbands , so the settlers passed this law that no woman should have right of inheritance in Salic land . And the Salic land -- the region between the Elbe and the Sala , in Germany , as I said -- is now called Meissen . It is clear , then , that the Salic law was not
My dear master , my captain , my sovereign , let me say before I strike this fatal blow : farewell .
I 'm very glad about that . I 'll hound him . I 'll torture him . I 'm very glad .
What 's new , cousin Lodovico ?
Thank you , my lord . May the god of power make me , the weakest of the weak , your mediator . A war between you two would split the very world , and the bodies of your slaughtered soldiers would have to fill the chasm between .
Where do you live , pretty young man ?
Why do I have to do that ? Tell me .
Because their business lies outside the home .
Are you really going to tell me that ? His son was a minor only two years ago .
No , only his enemies .
No , Lysander . Please , for my sake , sleep a little farther away . Do n't sleep so close to me .
What do you mean by that ?
have lost , and the indignity we have endured , for which he is too insignificant to sufficiently pay us back . His coffers are too poor to atone for our losses , his entire kingdom too small to account for the amount of blood we 've shed , and the sight of him kneeling at our feet an empty satisfaction compared to the indignity we have put up with . Add defiance to all this and , by way of conclusion , tell him that he has betrayed the men who follow him , whose death sentence has been pronounced . " My king and master 's message delivered , my task is done .
Here come two of Duke Senior 's pages .
As a friend .
A curtain is drawn revealing showing three caskets : one gold , one silver , and one lead .
Kind Tyrrel , will your news make me happy ?
Madness ? My heart beats just as evenly as yours does . There 's nothing crazy in what I 've just uttered . Put me to the test . I 'll rephrase everything I 've just said , which a lunatic could n't do . Mother , for the love of God , do n't flatter yourself into believing that it 's my madness , not your crime , that 's the problem . You 'd just be concealing the rot that 's eating you from the inside . Confess your sins to heaven . Repent and avoid damnation . Do n't spread manure over the weeds in your heart ; it 'll only make them more filthy . Forgive me my good intentions here since in these fat and spoiled times , virtuous people have to say , " Beg your pardon " to vile ones and beg for the chance to do any good .
Translate .
I heard myself declared an outlaw and escaped capture by hiding in the trunk of a hollow tree . Every town and port is crawling with henchmen on the lookout , waiting to capture me . But I 'll survive while I can . I 've decided to disguise myself as the lowliest and rattiest beggar that mankind has ever seen . I 'll smear my face with filth , put on a loincloth , make my hair matted and tangled , and face the bad weather wearing almost nothing . I 've seen beggars out of insane asylums who stick pins and nails into their numb arms . They pray or roar lunatic curses , horrifying farmers and villagers into giving them alms . " Poor crazy Tom ! " they call themselves . Well , at least that 's something . As Edgar , I 'm nothing at all .
Oh , do n't touch me . I 'm not Stephano , I 'm a walking cramp .
Yes , " fashion " is just the word -- a passing whim . Go on .
Everything we 've heard is bad .
To get my poor , mad husband out from inside there . Let us in so we can tie him up tight and bring him home to recover .
Please stop turning me around . My stomach 's a little upset .
He 's far from being a villain . May God pardon him ! I do , with all my heart . And yet no man could make my heart grieve like he does .
Take care of the lady .
If I really believed that , I 'd give up red meat totally . By the way , I 'm going home tomorrow , Sir Toby .
Hello , sir ! How are you ?
Farewell , Verona ! I 'm off to visit my friends in Padua -- particularly my best friend Hortensio . And I think this is his house . Here , you there , Grumio . Knock .
Unless he 's coming to be your leader you ca n't guess why the Welshman 's coming ? You plan to revolt and join him , I 'm afraid .
I 'll also wear this in my cap . If you come to me after tomorrow and say , " That 's my glove , " I swear by this hand , I will take it and give you a box on the ear .
What can I do for my lord ?
That time ? Oh , there were so many fun times . I would play some trick on him and laugh until he lost his patience . Then , that night , I would laugh with him while we made love until he was patient again . Then by nine in the morning I would have him so drunk I could dress him in my clothes while I wore the sword he used at the famous battle of Philippi .
Davy , get Master Bardolph some wine .
I do n't mean anything -- but God sends everyone their heart 's desire .
Yes . Did you see anything ?
Not yours ? Darn it ? Honestly ! You swear like a candymaker 's wife . " Not you , darn it . " And " I swear on my life , " and " God forgive me , " and " as plain as day . " Your curse words are smooth as silk . You 'd think you 'd never gone further than Finsbury in your life . Swear like the real lady you are , Kate . Let loose a good mouthful of curses ; leave " darn " and such watered-down cursewords to those citizens , trimmed in velvet and wearing their Sunday best . Come on , sing .
What time is it , Francis ?
Right away , Caesar .
You have made this vow with deep sincerity . My dear , leave me alone now awhile . My mind is getting foggy , and I would like to sleep and escape this endless day .
Is the law on our side if I say yes ?
God , that song 's even better than the other one .
Antipholus owes me the exact amount that I owe you . Just before I ran into you , I gave him a necklace . At five o'clock he 's going to pay me for it . Please , come to his house with me . I 'll pay what I owe you then and say thank you as well .
I have n't seen him recently .
Iago is gesturing for me to come closer . Now he 's telling the story .
Weak - willed fool ! Shallow , fickle woman !
An annoying schoolboy , unworthy of such an honor , joined by a masquerader and a partier !
It 's still waving to me . --Go ahead , I 'll follow .
Then God be praised , it is the blessed sun . But it is not the sun when you say it is not , and the moon changes according to your mind . Whatever you want to call a thing , that 's what it is -- and that 's what it will always be for me .
Go back to sleep , Lucius . Claudio ! You there , wake up !
Why , he 's a fool , an idiot , a moron , a man who now and then joins the army so as to be able to give himself airs when he gets back to London and masquerades as a soldier . Such fellows have memorized the names of famous commanders , and they can tell you -- having learned such things by rote , not by experience -- where this or that battle was fought , at such and such fort , at such and such wall , with such and such protective escort . And they can say who fought well , who was
Yes , just as great and just as recent . And I have much less to comfort me than you do , since I 've lost my daughter .
It might have been appropriate to make both the rod and the garland . He could have worn the garland himself and beaten you with the rod , since you -- as I understand it -- have stolen his bird 's nest .
I believe you , and I ask you to forgive me . Will you please make this half - devil say why he tricked me and damned my soul ?
And I also hear that the King has fallen into a terrible paralysis .
Please , dear , calm down . The meat was fine if you wanted to eat it .
You can tell me . You really should .
What can I do for you , madam ? How are you ?
And why , wise lady ? You shut up , old woman . Go blabber with your gossiping friends .
Well , all right then . Fine .
Return to your lord . Give him my best regards . Tell him the queen has given her heartfelt consent to his marriage to her daughter , Elizabeth . And these letters will let him know what my thinking is . Goodbye , and take care .
Please go , sir . My new master is expecting your approach .
As far as I understand , that 's why we 're posted here tonight and why there 's such a commotion in Denmark lately .
It 's arranged . The Count Claudio will marry Leonato 's daughter .
Thank you , sir . Do you know what Caesar intends to do with me ?
I do n't think you would .
Ah , how pitiful !
Madam , not yet . I 'm going to stand so I can see him pass on the way to the Capitol .
Here comes Baptista . Places , everyone !
You speak out of passion , but I beg you not to stir things up . Here comes the noble Antony .
But wait a minute . Let me gather my wits and get serious here . Did n't he say my brother has run away ?
I 'll get my bottle back if it 's the last thing I do .
Believe me , I can cut a caper .
This sunken-eyed hag was brought here pregnant and left by the sailors . You , my slave , were her servant at the time , as you admit yourself . You were too delicate to carry out her horrible orders , and you refused . In a fit of rage she locked you up in a hollow pine tree , with the help of her powerful assistants , and left you there for twelve years . During that time she died , and you were trapped , moaning and groaning as fast as the blades of a mill wheel strike the water . At that time there were no people here . This island was not honored with a human being -- except for the son that Sycorax gave birth to here , a freckled baby born of an old hag .
Sorry , I 'm all stuffed . I ca n't smell a thing .
Gave me , sir ? You did n't give me any gold .
Or a courtier , who could say things like , " Good night , my sweet lord ! How are you doing , good lord ? " This might be the skull of Lord So - and - So , who praised Lord Such - and - Such 's horse when he wanted to borrow it , right ?
What 's going on ? What are you doing here alone ?
Yes , my good lord .
The bearer of bad news is often blamed for it .
That 's always true . Who gets up from a meal with the same appetite he had when he sat down ? Can any horse retrace his footsteps with the same energy he had when he walked them the first time ? We chase everything in life more excitedly than we actually enjoy it when we get it . It 's like when a ship sails out of the harbor with all its flags waving , gently pushed by the wind . When that ship returns , her timber is all weather-beaten and her sails are ragged . That same wind makes the ship thin and poor .
Coming , Master Shallow ! Coming !
Good gentlemen , look like you 're rested and happy . Do n't let our faces betray our plans . Instead , carry yourselves like Roman actors , with cheerful spirits and well-composed faces . And so , good morning to all of you .
Good idea . Take my sword . The captain -- give it to the captain .
I bet he 'll spend his whole inheritance in a year . He 's a fool and a spendthrift .
Ha , ha , ha !
His name is Romeo . He 's a Montague . He 's the only son of your worst enemy .
Hello !
If I loved you as passionately as my master does , and suffered like he does , your rejection would make no sense to me . I would n't understand it .
She 's not even fourteen .
Good evening , brother .
Where is he ?
Where ?
And you say you 'll marry me , if I 'm willing to marry you ?
I was n't thinking clearly when I made those promises to her .
Oh , I 've heard him talk about that brother , and he described him as the most inhumane man alive .
