In faith , my lord , you are too willful - blame , And , since your coming hither , have done enough To put him quite beside his patience . You must needs learn , lord , to amend this fault . Though sometimes it show greatness , courage , blood -- And that 's the dearest grace it renders you -- Yet oftentimes it doth present harsh rage , Defect of manners , want of government , Pride , haughtiness , opinion , and disdain , The least of which , haunting a nobleman , Loseth men 's hearts and leaves behind a stain Upon the beauty of all parts besides , Beguiling them of commendation .
I could well forbear ' t . It 's monstrous labor when I wash my brain And it grows fouler .
Hence from Verona art thou banished . Be patient , for the world is broad and wide .
My lord .
Damn her , lewd minx ! Oh , damn her , damn her ! Come , go with me apart . I will withdraw To furnish me with some swift means of death For the fair devil . Now art thou my lieutenant .
So when he opens his purse to give us our reward , thy conscience flies out .
I one , my lord . Your Highness bade me ask for it today .
The other night I fell asleep here behind the arras , and had my pocket picked . This house is turned bawdy house ; they pick pockets .
It works ! Come on . Thou hast done well , fine Ariel ! Follow me . Hark what thou else shalt do me .
And you shall say indeed it is the time , And not the King , that doth you injuries . Yet for your part , it not appears to me Either from the King or in the present time That you should have an inch of any ground To build a grief on . Were you not restored To all the Duke of Norfolk 's seigniories , Your noble and right well remembered father 's ?
So , I am satisfied . Give me a bowl of wine . I have not that alacrity of spirit Nor cheer of mind that I was wont to have . Set it down . Is ink and paper ready ?
I would be sorry , my lord , but it should be thus . I never knew yet but rebuke and check was the reward of valor . Do you think me a swallow , an arrow , or a bullet ? Have I in my poor and old motion the expedition of thought ? I have speeded hither with the very extremest inch of possibility . I have foundered ninescore and odd posts , and here , travel - tainted as I am , have in my pure and immaculate valor taken Sir John Colevile of the Dale , a most furious knight and valorous enemy . But what of that ? He saw me and yielded , that I may justly say , with the hook-nosed fellow of Rome , " There , cousin , I came , saw , and overcame . "
Hear me , you wrangling pirates , that fall out In sharing that which you have pilled from me ! Which of you trembles not that looks on me ? If not , that I am queen , you bow like subjects , Yet that , by you deposed , you quake like rebels . -- Ah , gentle villain , do not turn away .
Go , Captain , from me greet the Danish king Tell him that , by his license , Fortinbras Craves the conveyance of a promised march Over his kingdom . You know the rendezvous . If that his majesty would aught with us , We shall express our duty in his eye , And let him know so .
O musicians , because my heart itself plays " My Heart is Full . " O , play me some merry dump to comfort me .
Most sweet lady --
What would she have ?
I will not hence and leave my husband here ; And ill it doth beseem your holiness To separate the husband and the wife .
Come , you rogue , come , bring me to a justice .
I am not merry , but I do beguile The thing I am by seeming otherwise . Come , how wouldst thou praise me ?
Now make your choice .
Well , give them their charge , neighbor Dogberry .
Marry , the immortal part needs a physician , but that moves not him . Though that be sick , it dies not .
Say to the king I would attend his leisure For a few words .
If I think so , I think the same of you .
Master Gower , if they become me not , he was a fool that taught them me . --This is the right fencing grace , my lord : tap for tap , and so part fair .
Lucius , a bowl of wine !
O vain fool !
' Tis a good hearing when children are toward .
He will not fight with me , Domitius ?
What , you egg ? Young fry of treachery !
Alas , good Kate , I will not burden thee , For knowing thee to be but young and light --
Where 's he ?
What is a traitor ?
O cross ! Too high to be enthralled to low .
I pray you .
Now is the woodcock near the gin .
Great God of heaven , say amen to all ! But tell me , is young George Stanley living ?
My lord , the enemy is past the marsh . After the battle let George Stanley die .
No , no . You must play Pyramus . --And Flute , you Thisbe .
No , nothing but ourselves .
It is , and wants but nomination .
Carry his water to the wisewoman .
How now , my hearts ! Did you never see the picture of " We Three " ?
For no ill will I bear you .
He 's of the color of the nutmeg .
Come , come , You 'll never meet a more sufficient man .
It hath felt no age nor known no sorrow .
Not so much noise , my lords . --Sweet Prince , speak low . The King your father is disposed to sleep .
Ay , my good lord .
Sit , and some wine . A health to Lepidus !
Seest thou this object , Kent ?
What dost thou know ?
Then follow me and give me audience , friends . --Cassius , go you into the other street And part the numbers . --Those that will hear me speak , let ' em stay here . Those that will follow Cassius , go with him , And public reasons shall be rendered Of Caesar 's death .
My lady 's father .
Beloved Regan , Thy sister 's naught . O Regan , she hath tied Sharp - toothed unkindness , like a vulture , here . I can scarce speak to thee . Thou'lt not believe With how depraved a quality -- O Regan !
This is a slight , unmeritable man , Meet to be sent on errands . Is it fit , The threefold world divided , he should stand One of the three to share it ?
Can such things be , And overcome us like a summer 's cloud , Without our special wonder ? You make me strange Even to the disposition that I owe , When now I think you can behold such sights , And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks , When mine is blanched with fear .
And what of all this ?
Then so much have I heard . And I have heard Apollodorus carried --
Why , why is this ? Think 'st thou I 'd make a life of jealousy , To follow still the changes of the moon With fresh suspicions ? No ! To be once in doubt Is to be resolved . Exchange me for a goat When I shall turn the business of my soul To such exsufflicate and blowed surmises , Matching thy inference . ' Tis not to make me jealous To say my wife is fair , feeds well , loves company , Is free of speech , sings , plays , and dances . Where virtue is , these are more virtuous . Nor from mine own weak merits will I draw The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt , For she had eyes and chose me . No , Iago , I 'll see before I doubt , when I doubt , prove , And on the proof there is no more but this : Away at once with love or jealousy !
Now , by heaven , My blood begins my safer guides to rule , And passion , having my best judgment collied , Assays to lead the way . If I once stir ,
Yet --
Thy voice is thunder , but thy looks are humble .
You , you , sirrah , where 's my daughter ?
Ah keeper , keeper , I have done those things , That now give evidence against my soul , For Edward 's sake , and see how he requites me . -- O God , if my deep prayers cannot appease thee , But thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds , Yet execute thy wrath in me alone ! O , spare my guiltless wife and my poor children ! -- Keeper , I prithee sit by me awhile . My soul is heavy , and I fain would sleep .
Let him appear that 's come from Antony . Know you him ?
Noblest of men , woo't die ? Hast thou no care of me ? Shall I abide In this dull world , which in thy absence is No better than a sty ? O see , my women , The crown o ' th ' earth doth melt . My lord !
Why , here is the note of the fashion to testify .
Will your Lordship lend me a thousand pound to furnish me forth ?
You lie , you rogue . ' Tis going to the King 's Tavern .
I know not what may fall . I like it not .
So white , and such a traitor ?
Poor and content is rich , and rich enough , But riches fineless is as poor as winter To him that ever fears he shall be poor . Good heaven , the souls of all my tribe defend From jealousy !
Is the chair empty ? Is the sword unswayed ? Is the king dead , the empire unpossessed ? What heir of York is there alive but we ? And who is England 's king but great York 's heir ? Then tell me , what makes he upon the seas ?
I 'll wait upon you , and I long to hear it .
Would you 'd pardon me ; I do not without danger walk these streets : Once in a sea - fight ' gainst the Count his galleys I did some service , of such note indeed , That were I ta'en here it would scarce be answered .
Was not that Cassio parted from my wife ?
There 's none so foul and foolish thereunto , But does foul pranks which fair and wise ones do .
Now comes in the sweetest morsel of the night , and we must hence and leave it unpicked .
Here , father , take the shadow of this tree For your good host . Pray that the right may thrive . If ever I return to you again , I 'll bring you comfort .
I am thinking , brother , of a prediction I read this other day , what should follow these eclipses .
Alas , good Cassius , do not think of him . If he love Caesar , all that he can do Is to himself : take thought and die for Caesar . And that were much he should , for he is given To sports , to wildness and much company .
If thou beest a man , show thyself in thy likeness . If thou beest a devil , take ' t as thou list .
I have a whole school of tongues in this belly of mine , and not a tongue of them all speaks any other word but my name . An I had but a belly of any indifferency , I were simply the most active fellow in Europe . My womb , my womb , my womb undoes me . Here comes our general .
Only be patient till we have appeased The multitude , beside themselves with fear , And then we will deliver you the cause , Why I , that did love Caesar when I struck him , Have thus proceeded .
Call up my brother --Oh , would you had had her ! Some one way , some another . Do you know Where we may apprehend her and the Moor ?
Welcome , dear cousin , my thoughts ' sovereign . The weary way hath made you melancholy .
She may , Lord Rivers . Why , who knows not so ? She may do more , sir , than denying that . She may help you to many fair preferments And then deny her aiding hand therein , And lay those honors on your high desert . What may she not ? She may , ay , marry , may she --
Why should he not ?
He is , my lord , and safe in Leicester town , Whither , if it please you , we may now withdraw us .
Sir .
Friends both , go join you with some further aid . Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain , And from his mother 's closet hath he dragged him . Go seek him out , speak fair , and bring the body Into the chapel . I pray you , haste in this .
Though I do hate him as I do hell pains , Yet for necessity of present life I must show out a flag and sign of love , . That you shall surely find him , Lead to the Sagittary the raised search , And there will I be with him . So farewell .
Poor heart , adieu . I pity thy complaining .
He is the only man of Italy , Always excepted my dear Claudio .
Fie ! What a foolish duty call you this ?
Alas !
How is ' t , Laertes ?
O my brave Emperor , this is fought indeed ! Had we done so at first , we had droven them home With clouts about their heads .
Ay , husband . Can he that deny ?
Now , out of doubt Antipholus is mad ; Else would he never so demean himself . A ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats , And for the same he promised me a chain . Both one and other he denies me now . The reason that I gather he is mad , Besides this present instance of his rage , Is a mad tale he told today at dinner Of his own doors being shut against his entrance . Belike his wife , acquainted with his fits , On purpose shut the doors against his way . My way is now to hie home to his house And tell his wife that , being lunatic , He rushed into my house and took perforce My ring away . This course I fittest choose , For forty ducats is too much to lose .
Well , And well am like to do , for I perceive , Four feasts are toward .
God and our good cause fight upon our side . The prayers of holy saints and wronged souls , Like high - reared bulwarks , stand before our faces . Richard except , those whom we fight against Had rather have us win than him they follow . For what is he they follow ? Truly , gentlemen , A bloody tyrant and a homicide ; One raised in blood , and one in blood established ; One that made means to come by what he hath , And slaughtered those that were the means to help him ; A base foul stone , made precious by the foil Of England 's chair , where he is falsely set ; One that hath ever been God 's enemy . Then if you fight against God 's enemy , God will , in justice , ward you as his soldiers . If you do sweat to put a tyrant down , You sleep in peace , the tyrant being slain . If you do fight against your country 's foes , Your country 's fat shall pay your pains the hire . If you do fight in safeguard of your wives , Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors . If you do free your children from the sword , Your children 's children quits it in your age . Then , in the name of God and all these rights , Advance your standards . Draw your willing swords . For me , the ransom of my bold attempt Shall be this cold corpse on the earth 's cold face ; But if I thrive , the gain of my attempt The least of you shall share his part thereof . Sound drums and trumpets boldly and cheerfully ; God and Saint George ! Richmond and victory !
O sir , content you . I follow him to serve my turn upon him . We cannot all be masters , nor all masters Cannot be truly followed . You shall mark Many a duteous and knee - crooking knave That Wears out his time much like his master 's ass For naught but provender , and when he 's old , cashiered . Whip me such honest knaves . Others there are Who , trimmed in forms and visages of duty , Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves And , throwing but shows of service on their lords , Do well thrive by them . And when they have lined their coats , Do themselves homage . These fellows have some soul ,
But it is doubtful yet Whether Caesar will come forth today or no . For he is superstitious grown of late , Quite from the main opinion he held once Of fantasy , of dreams and ceremonies . It may be , these apparent prodigies , The unaccustomed terror of this night , And the persuasion of his augurers May hold him from the Capitol today .
Alas , he is betrayed and I undone .
Send Colevile with his confederates To York , to present execution . -- Blunt , lead him hence , and see you guard him sure .
Fetch Desdemona hither .
Look , and thou shalt see .
Ah , Buckingham , now do I play the touch , To try if thou be current gold indeed . Young Edward lives ; think now what I would speak .
No , not a creature enters in my house .
Alas now , pray you , Work not so hard . I would the lightning had Burnt up those logs that you are enjoined to pile ! Pray , set it down and rest you . When this burns , ' Twill weep for having wearied you . My father Is hard at study . Pray now , rest yourself . He 's safe for these three hours .
Not that Adam that kept the Paradise , but that Adam that keeps the prison ; he that goes in the calf 's skin that was killed for the Prodigal ; he that came behind you , sir , like an evil angel , and bid you forsake your liberty .
I 'll believe both And what does else want credit , come to me , And I 'll be sworn ' tis true . Travelers ne'er did lie , Though fools at home condemn ' em .
From the court ? Let him come in .
Is this the promised end ?
Sir , here comes the nobleman that committed the Prince for striking him about Bardolph .
Alas , sweet lady , what imports this song ?
Whither are you going ?
Out on thee , villain ! Wherefore dost thou mad me ?
I told him what I thought , and told no more Than what he found himself was apt and true .
What is she ?
You lie , in faith , for you are called plain Kate , And bonny Kate , and sometimes Kate the curst , But Kate , the prettiest Kate in Christendom , Kate of Kate Hall , my super - dainty Kate - - For dainties are all Kates -- and therefore , Kate , Take this of me , Kate of my consolation : Hearing thy mildness praised in every town , Thy virtues spoke of , and thy beauty sounded -- Yet not so deeply as to thee belongs -- Myself am moved to woo thee for my wife .
Stephano ! If thou beest Stephano , touch me and speak to me . For I am Trinculo -- be not afeard -- thy good friend Trinculo .
Let 's then determine with the ancient of war On our proceedings .
Here , madam .
Ay , sir . Where lies that ? If ' twere a kibe , ' Twould put me to my slipper . But I feel not This deity in my bosom . Twenty consciences , That stand ' twixt me and Milan , candied be they And melt ere they molest ! Here lies your brother , No better than the earth he lies upon , If he were that which now he 's like-- that 's dead -- Whom I , with this obedient steel , three inches of it , Can lay to bed for ever ; whiles you , doing thus , To the perpetual wink for aye might put This ancient morsel , this Sir Prudence , who
What a treasure had he , my lord ?
I then did use the person of your father ; The image of his power lay then in me . And in th ' administration of his law , Whiles I was busy for the commonwealth , Your Highness pleased to forget my place , The majesty and power of law and justice , The image of the King whom I presented , And struck me in my very seat of judgment , Whereon , as an offender to your father , I gave bold way to my authority And did commit you . If the deed were ill , Be you contented , wearing now the garland , To have a son set your decrees at nought ? To pluck down justice from your awful bench ? To trip the course of law and blunt the sword That guards the peace and safety of your person ? Nay more , to spurn at your most royal image And mock your workings in a second body ? Question your royal thoughts , make the case yours ; Be now the father and propose a son , Hear your own dignity so much profaned , See your most dreadful laws so loosely slighted , Behold yourself so by a son disdained , And then imagine me taking your part And in your power soft silencing your son . After this cold considerance , sentence me , And , as you are a king , speak in your state
Oh , that 's well said -- the chair ! Some good man bear him carefully from hence . I 'll fetch the general 's surgeon . -- For you , mistress , Save you your labor . --He that lies slain here , Cassio , Was my dear friend . What malice was between you ?
How now , Ophelia ? What 's the matter ?
Stand you directly in Antonius ' way When he doth run his course . --Antonius!
Ay , if Messala will prefer me to you .
How , how , Cordelia ? Mend your speech a little , Lest you may mar your fortunes .
No , no , no , no , no .
You will compel me , then , to read the will ? Then make a ring about the corpse of Caesar , And let me show you him that made the will . Shall I descend ? And will you give me leave ?
I think we are too bold upon your rest . Good morrow , Brutus . Do we trouble you ?
Marry , sir , we say we are none .
Have I , my lord ? I assure my good liege , I hold my duty as I hold my soul , Both to my God and to my gracious king .
She sees not Hermia . --Hermia , sleep thou there . And never mayst thou come Lysander near ! For as a surfeit of the sweetest things The deepest loathing to the stomach brings , Or as the heresies that men do leave Are hated most of those they did deceive , So thou , my surfeit and my heresy , Of all be hated , but the most of me . -- And all my powers , address your love and might To honor Helen and to be her knight .
Where have I been ? Where am I ? Fair daylight ? I am mightily abused . I should ev'n die with pity To see another thus . I know not what to say . I will not swear these are my hands . Let 's see . I feel this pinprick . Would I were assured Of my condition .
I am not married , Caesar . Let me hear Agrippa further speak .
Expound unto me , boy .
My lord , I did intend it .
To take ' t again perforce -- Monster ingratitude !
Welcome , ass . Now let 's have a catch .
Bid them come near .
I know him not .
A halter gratis , nothing else , for God 's sake .
My lord , they stay for you to give your daughter to her husband .
That we the pain of death would hourly die Rather than die at once ! -- taught me to shift Into a madman 's rags , t ' assume a semblance That very dogs disdained . And in this habit Met I my father with his bleeding rings , Their precious stones new lost , became his guide , Led him , begged for him , saved him from despair . Never --O fault ! -- revealed myself unto him Until some half-hour past , when I was armed . Not sure , though hoping of this good success , I asked his blessing , and from first to last Told him my pilgrimage . But his flawed heart -- Alack , too weak the conflict to support -- ' Twixt two extremes of passion , joy and grief , Burst smilingly .
May he not do it by fine and recovery ?
O , be thou damned , inexecrable dog , And for thy life let justice be accused ! Thou almost makest me waver in my faith To hold opinion with Pythagoras That souls of animals infuse themselves Into the trunks of men . Thy currish spirit Governed a wolf who , hanged for human slaughter , Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet , And whilst thou layest in thy unhallowed dam Infused itself in thee , for thy desires Are wolvish , bloody , starved , and ravenous .
Fie , this is hot weather , gentlemen . Have you provided me here half a dozen sufficient men ?
Safe , Antony . Brutus is safe enough . I dare assure thee that no enemy Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus . The gods defend him from so great a shame ! When you do find him , or alive or dead , He will be found like Brutus , like himself .
You will not then ?
Why , look you now , how unworthy a thing you make of me ! You would play upon me . You would seem to know my stops . You would pluck out the heart of my mystery . You would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass . And there is much music , excellent voice , in this little organ , yet cannot you make it speak ? ' Sblood , do you think I am easier to be played on than a pipe ? Call me what instrument you will , though you can fret me , yet you cannot play upon me .
Your lady mother is coming to your chamber . The day is broke . Be wary , look about .
Ha , banishment ! Be merciful , say " death , " For exile hath more terror in his look , Much more than death . Do not say " banishment . "
Alas the day , take heed of him . He stabbed me in mine own house , and that most beastly , in good faith . He cares not what mischief he does . If his weapon be out , he will foin like any devil . He will spare neither man , woman , nor child .
Why , sir , her name 's a word , and to dally with that word might make my sister wanton . But , indeed , words are very rascals since bonds disgraced them .
Will you think so ?
No , I am promised forth .
You .
' Tis called Jerusalem , my noble lord .
Out upon it , old carrion ! Rebels it at these years ?
Why , so I did .
Now , sirrah , you do wish yourself in Egypt ?
Good tidings , my Lord Hastings , for the which I do arrest thee , traitor , of high treason . -- And you , Lord Archbishop , and you , Lord Mowbray , Of capital treason I attach you both .
On your attendance , my lord , here .
Amen !
Your wife would give you little thanks for that If she were by to hear you make the offer .
Or , if there were a sympathy in choice , War , death , or sickness did lay siege to it , Making it momentary as a sound , Swift as a shadow , short as any dream , Brief as the lightning in the collied night ; That , in a spleen , unfolds both heaven and Earth , And ere a man hath power to say " Behold ! " The jaws of darkness do devour it up . So quick bright things come to confusion .
But as ' tis , We cannot miss him . He does make our fire , Fetch in our wood , and serves in offices That profit us . --What , ho ! Slave ! Caliban ! Thou earth , thou ! Speak .
To hear by the nose , it is dulcet in contagion . But shall we make the welkin dance indeed ? Shall we rouse the night owl in a catch that will draw three souls out of one weaver ? Shall we do that ?
Some wine , ho ! And let me the cannikin clink , clink , And let me the cannikin clink . A soldier 's a man , A life 's but a span , Why then let a soldier drink . Some wine , boys !
Sir ?
Either I mistake your shape and making quite , Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite Called Robin Goodfellow . Are not you he That frights the maidens of the villagery , Skim milk , and sometimes labor in the quern And bootless make the breathless housewife churn , And sometime make the drink to bear no barm , Mislead night - wanderers , laughing at their harm ? Those that " Hobgoblin " call you , and " sweet Puck , " You do their work , and they shall have good luck . Are not you he ?
And so will I.
When I like your favor , for God defend the lute should be like the case !
I ' faith , sir , you shall never need to fear . I wis it is not halfway to her heart . But if it were , doubt not her care should be To comb your noddle with a three-legged stool And paint your face and use you like a fool .
I think thou art an ass .
Faith , you said so before .
How shall we part with them in setting forth ?
I am sure the duke Will never grant this forfeiture to hold .
About your years , my lord .
If they do see thee they will murder thee .
I marry her ! What ? A customer ? Prithee bear some charity to my wit . Do not think it so unwholesome . Ha , ha , ha !
Tarry , good Beatrice . By this hand , I love thee .
Huntsman , I charge thee , tender well my hounds . Breathe Merriman , the poor cur is embossed , And couple Clowder with the deep - mouthed brach . Saw 'st thou not , boy , how Silver made it good At the hedge corner , in the coldest fault ? I would not lose the dog for twenty pound .
His word is more than the miraculous harp . He hath raised the wall and houses too .
" High and mighty , You shall know I am set naked on your kingdom . Tomorrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes , when I shall , first asking your pardon thereunto , recount the occasion of my sudden and more strange return . Hamlet . "
Ay , there it is .
In good time , sir , what 's that ?
Ay , my lord .
Well , let 's away and say how much is done .
By our beards , thou art .
They know your Grace hath cause and means and might ; So hath your Highness . Never king of England Had nobles richer , and more loyal subjects , Whose hearts have left their bodies here in England And lie pavilioned in the fields of France .
Come , is the bride ready to go to church ?
Bravely , my diligence . Thou shalt be free .
I 'll follow , as they say , for reward . He that rewards me , God reward him . If I do grow great , I 'll grow less , for I 'll purge and leave sack and live cleanly as a nobleman should do .
Here , wear this jewel for me . ' Tis my picture . Refuse it not . It hath no tongue to vex you . And I beseech you come again tomorrow . What shall you ask of me that I 'll deny , That honor , saved , may upon asking give ?
Why , what a wasp - stung and impatient fool Art thou to break into this woman 's mood , Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own !
Well , as time shall try . In time the savage bull doth bear the yoke .
If we imagine no worse of them than they of themselves , they may pass for excellent men . Here come two noble beasts in , a man and a lion .
I will say so .
--Stop it , Marcellus .
And I. If wishes would prevail with me , My purpose should not fail with me , But thither would I hie .
O Julius Caesar , thou art mighty yet ! Thy spirit walks abroad and turns our swords In our own proper entrails .
Sit you down , father . Rest you . Let 's see these pockets . The letters that he speaks of May be my friends . He 's dead . I am only sorry He had no other death 's - man . Let us see . Leave , gentle wax , and , manners , blame us not . To know our enemies ' minds , we rip their hearts . Their papers is more lawful . " Let our reciprocal vows be remembered . You have many opportunities to cut him off . If your will want not , time and place will be fruitfully offered . There is nothing done if he return the conqueror . Then am I the prisoner and his bed my gaol , from the loathed warmth whereof deliver me , and supply the place for your labor . Your -- wife , so I would say -- affectionate servant , and for you her own for venture , Goneril . " O indistinguished space of woman 's will ! A plot upon her virtuous husband 's life , And the exchange my brother ! --Here in the sands Thee I 'll rake up , the post unsanctified Of murderous lechers . And in the mature time With this ungracious paper strike the sight Of the death - practiced duke . For him ' tis well That of thy death and business I can tell .
But I shall laugh at this a twelve-month hence , That they which brought me in my master 's hate , I live to look upon their tragedy . Well , Catesby , ere a fortnight make me older I 'll send some packing that yet think not on ' t .
Not in my house , Lucentio , for you know Pitchers have ears , and I have many servants . Besides , old Gremio is heark'ning still , And happily we might be interrupted .
Knock you here , sir ? Why , sir , what am I , sir , that I should knock you here , sir ?
I charge thee on thy allegiance .
Where art thou , keeper ? Give me a cup of wine .
To make his followers weep .
Most mighty sovereign , on the western coast Rideth a puissant navy . To our shores Throng many doubtful hollow - hearted friends , Unarmed and unresolved to beat them back . ' Tis thought that Richmond is their admiral ; And there they hull , expecting but the aid Of Buckingham to welcome them ashore .
Why should I not ? Doth he not deserve well ?
With all my heart , good youth .
When I was mortal , my anointed body By thee was punched full of deadly holes . Think on the Tower and me . Despair , and die ! Harry the Sixth bids thee despair and die . Virtuous and holy , be thou conqueror . Harry , that prophesied thou shouldst be king , Doth comfort thee in thy sleep . Live and flourish .
Why , as I told thee , ' tis a custom with him , I ' th ' afternoon to sleep . There thou mayst brain him , Having first seized his books ; or with a log Batter his skull ; or paunch him with a stake ; Or cut his weasand with thy knife . Remember First to possess his books , for without them He 's but a sot , as I am , nor hath not One spirit to command . They all do hate him As rootedly as I. Burn but his books . He has brave utensils -- for so he calls them -- Which when he has a house , he 'll deck withal . And that most deeply to consider is The beauty of his daughter . He himself Calls her a nonpareil . I never saw a woman , But only Sycorax my dam and she . But she as far surpasseth Sycorax As great 'st does least .
Amen , dear goddess , hear that prayer of the people ! For , as it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man loose - wived , so it is a deadly sorrow to behold a foul knave uncuckolded . Therefore , dear Isis , keep decorum , and fortune him accordingly .
My lord , your brother John is ta'en in flight And brought with armed men back to Messina .
That skull had a tongue in it and could sing once . How the knave jowls it to the ground , as if it were Cain 's jawbone , that did the first murder ! It might be the pate of a politician , which this ass now o'erreaches , one that would circumvent God , might it not ?
Bear them from hence . Our present business Is to general woe . Friends of my soul , you twain Rule in this realm , and the gored state sustain .
Madman , thou errest . I say , there is no darkness but ignorance , in which thou art more puzzled than the Egyptians in their fog .
For obtaining of suits ?
Can you do it ?
Good morrow , gentle mistress , where away?- - Tell me , sweet Kate , and tell me truly too , Hast thou beheld a fresher gentlewoman ? Such war of white and red within her cheeks ! What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty As those two eyes become that heavenly face?- - Fair lovely maid , once more good day to thee . -- Sweet Kate , embrace her for her beauty 's sake .
Nurse , commend me to thy lady and mistress . I protest unto thee --
Pardon me , dear Rosalind .
Why he more than another ?
He needs as many , sir , as Caesar has , Or needs not us . If Caesar please , our master Will leap to be his friend . For us , you know Whose he is we are , and that is Caesar 's .
Marry , they say my uncle grew so fast That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old . ' Twas full two years ere I could get a tooth . Grandam , this would have been a biting jest .
' Tis seldom when the bee doth leave her comb In the dead carrion .
By heaven , I do not , I do not , gentlemen . -- O murderous coxcomb ! What should such a fool Do with so good a wife ?
Up .
Heard he the good news yet ? Tell it him .
Yea , and I will weep a while longer .
I will swear by it that you love me , and I will make him eat it that says I love not you .
He has deserved it , were it carbuncled Like holy Phoebus ' car . Give me thy hand . Through Alexandria make a jolly march . Bear our hacked targets like the men that owe them . Had our great palace the capacity To camp this host , we all would sup together And drink carouses to the next day 's fate , Which promises royal peril . --Trumpeters , With brazen din blast you the city 's ear ; Make mingle with our rattling taborins , That heaven and earth may strike their sounds together , Applauding our approach .
Bear free and patient thoughts .
Let it be so . Thy truth then be thy dower . For by the sacred radiance of the sun , The mysteries of Hecate and the night , By all the operation of the orbs From whom we do exist and cease to be -- Here I disclaim all my paternal care , Propinquity , and property of blood , And as a stranger to my heart and me Hold thee from this for ever . The barbarous Scythian , Or he that makes his generation messes To gorge his appetite , shall to my bosom Be as well neighbored , pitied , and relieved As thou my sometime daughter .
For Hamlet and the trifling of his favor , Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood , A violet in the youth of primy nature , Forward , not permanent , sweet , not lasting , The perfume and suppliance of a minute . No more .
Lucillius and Titinius , bid the commanders Prepare to lodge their companies tonight .
But have I fall'n , or no ?
Who will go to hazard with me for twenty prisoners ?
" M. " But then there is no consonancy in the sequel that suffers under probation " A " should follow but " O " does .
The gray - eyed morn smiles on the frowning night , Checkering the eastern clouds with streaks of light , And fleckled darkness like a drunkard reels From forth day 's path and Titan 's fiery wheels . Now , ere the sun advance his burning eye , The day to cheer and night 's dank dew to dry , I must upfill this osier cage of ours With baleful weeds and precious - juiced flowers . The earth , that 's nature 's mother , is her tomb . What is her burying , grave that is her womb . And from her womb children of divers kind We sucking on her natural bosom find , Many for many virtues excellent , None but for some and yet all different . Oh , mickle is the powerful grace that lies In herbs , plants , stones , and their true qualities . For naught so vile that on the earth doth live But to the earth some special good doth give . Nor aught so good but , strained from that fair use Revolts from true birth , stumbling on abuse . Virtue itself turns vice , being misapplied , And vice sometime by action dignified .
Get you hence , sirrah . Saucy fellow , hence !
A bridegroom , say you ? ' Tis a groom indeed , A grumbling groom , and that the girl shall find .
Nay , that 's certain . We are blest that Rome is rid of him .
I understand not , madam .
Most grave Brabantio , In simple and pure soul I come to you --
I prithee , recount some of them .
Plantagenet doth quit Plantagenet ; Edward for Edward pays a dying debt .
Yet thou didst kill my children .
Dar 'st thou resolve to kill a friend of mine ?
Why " silver sound " ? Why " music with her silver sound " ? What say you , Simon Catling ?
A most ridiculous monster , to make a wonder of a poor drunkard .
Something browner than Judas 's . Marry , his kisses are Judas 's own children .
Do .
He is ready at the door . He comes , my lord .
Well , come , my Kate . We will unto your father 's Even in these honest mean habiliments . Our purses shall be proud , our garments poor , For ' tis the mind that makes the body rich , And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds , So honor peereth in the meanest habit . What , is the jay more precious than the lark Because his feathers are more beautiful ? Or is the adder better than the eel Because his painted skin contents the eye ?
Sir John Falstaff !
How ? Is this true ?
This ring , good sir -- alas , it is a trifle . I will not shame myself to give you this .
As Hector , I assure you , and in the managing of quarrels you may say he is wise , for either he avoids them with great discretion or undertakes them with a most Christian - like fear .
Nor I. My spirits are nimble . They fell together all , as by consent . They dropped , as by a thunderstroke . What might , Worthy Sebastian , O , what might -- ? No more . -- And yet methinks I see it in thy face , What thou shouldst be . Th ' occasion speaks thee , and My strong imagination sees a crown Dropping upon thy head .
Excellent , madame !
I did impeticos thy gratillity , for Malvolio 's nose is no whipstock . My lady has a white hand , and the Myrmidons are no bottle - ale houses .
How did this offer seem received , my lord ?
Encore qu' il est contre son jurement de pardoner aucun prisonnier ; neanmoins , pour les ecus que vous lui avez promis , il est content a vous donner la liberte , le franchisement .
The son of Duncan -- From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth -- Lives in the English court and is received Of the most pious Edward with such grace That the malevolence of fortune nothing Takes from his high respect . Thither Macduff Is gone to pray the holy king upon his aid To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward , That by the help of these -- with Him above To ratify the work -- we may again Give to our tables meat , sleep to our nights , Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives , Do faithful homage and receive free honors . All which we pine for now . And this report Hath so exasperated the king that he Prepares for some attempt of war .
Not one , my lord . Besides , it should appear that if he had The present money to discharge the Jew , He would not take it . Never did I know A creature that did bear the shape of man So keen and greedy to confound a man . He plies the duke at morning and at night , And doth impeach the freedom of the state If they deny him justice . Twenty merchants , The duke himself , and the magnificoes Of greatest port have all persuaded with him . But none can drive him from the envious plea Of forfeiture , of justice , and his bond .
Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead .
The Emperor calls Canidius .
Yours in the ranks of death .
Oh , my heart bleeds To think o ' th ' teen that I have turned you to , Which is from my remembrance ! Please you , farther .
Who was it ?
No , lad . Teach me .
What country , friends , is this ?
Sweet Earl , divorce not wisdom from your honor . The lives of all your loving complices Lean on your health , the which , if you give o'er To stormy passion , must perforce decay . You cast th ' event of war , my noble lord , And summed the account of chance before you said " Let us make head . " It was your presurmise That , in the dole of blows your son might drop . You knew he walked o'er perils on an edge , More likely to fall in than to get o'er . You were advised his flesh was capable Of wounds and scars , and that his forward spirit Would lift him where most trade of danger ranged . Yet did you say " Go forth , " and none of this , Though strongly apprehended , could restrain The stiff - borne action . What hath then befall'n , Or what did this bold enterprise brought forth , More than that being which was like to be ?
No , faith , hate him not , for my sake .
Wash they his wounds with tears ? Mine shall be spent When theirs are dry , for Romeo 's banishment . Take up those cords . --Poor ropes , you are beguiled , Both you and I , for Romeo is exiled . He made you for a highway to my bed , But I , a maid , die maiden - widowed . Come , cords . --Come , Nurse . I 'll to my wedding bed . And death , not Romeo , take my maidenhead !
Now I arise . Sit still , and hear the last of our sea - sorrow . Here in this island we arrived , and here Have I , thy schoolmaster , made thee more profit Than other princesses can that have more time For vainer hours and tutors not so careful .
Most shallow man . Thou worms ' meat in respect of a good piece of flesh , indeed . Learn of the wise and perpend : civet is of a baser birth than tar , the very uncleanly flux of a cat . Mend the instance , shepherd .
Didst hear her speak ? Is she shrill - tongued or low ?
O monstrous beast , how like a swine he lies ! Grim death , how foul and loathsome is thine image ! Sirs , I will practice on this drunken man . What think you : if he were conveyed to bed , Wrapped in sweet clothes , rings put upon his fingers , A most delicious banquet by his bed , And brave attendants near him when he wakes , Would not the beggar then forget himself ?
No seconds ? All myself ? Why , this would make a man a man of salt , To use his eyes for garden water - pots , Ay , and laying autumn 's dust .
He wished today our enterprise might thrive . I fear our purpose is discovered .
No pains , sir . I take pleasure in singing , sir .
Oh , me , lieutenant ! What villains have done this ?
How shall I murder him , Iago ?
Brother , the King hath made your nephew mad .
Then never man was man true .
At such a time I 'll loose my daughter to him . Be you and I behind an arras then , Mark the encounter . If he love her not And be not from his reason fall'n thereon , Let me be no assistant for a state But keep a farm and carters .
Ha , ha , boy ! Sayst thou so ? Art thou there , truepenny ? Come on , you hear this fellow in the cellarage . Consent to swear .
My mind is changed .
No doubt , my lord .
My dagger , little cousin ? With all my heart .
He hath not told his thought to the king ?
The miserable change now at my end Lament nor sorrow at , but please your thoughts In feeding them with those my former fortunes , Wherein I lived the greatest prince o ' th ' world , The noblest , and do now not basely die , Not cowardly put off my helmet to My countryman -- a Roman by a Roman Valiantly vanquished . Now my spirit is going . I can no more .
Let vultures vile seize on his lungs also ! " Where is the life that late I led ? " say they . Why , here it is . Welcome these pleasant days .
I would I were thy bird .
Who commands them , sir ?
I knew of this before , but , to speak truth , This present grief had wiped it from my mind . Go in with me and counsel every man The aptest way for safety and revenge . Get posts and letters , and make friends with speed . Never so few , and never yet more need .
I bleed still , I am hurt to the death . He dies !
Hark , how these instruments summon to supper . The messengers of Venice stays the meat . Go in , and weep not . All things shall be well .
Nor go neither . But you 'll lie like dogs , and yet say nothing neither .
I thank you , sir . Where then do you know best We be affied and such assurance ta'en As shall with either part 's agreement stand ?
Nay , I am the very pink of courtesy .
As well a woman with an eunuch played As with a woman . --Come , you 'll play with me , sir ?
Too long a pause for that which you find there .
It hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place to the devil wrath . One unperfectness shows me another , to make me frankly despise myself .
Dost thou speak like a king ? Do thou stand for me , and I 'll play my father .
It is the Emperor , madam .
You know me well . I am he .
Sound , music ! --Come , my queen , take hands with me , And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be . Now thou and I are new in amity , And will tomorrow midnight solemnly Dance in Duke Theseus ' house triumphantly , And bless it to all fair prosperity . There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be Wedded , with Theseus , all in jollity .
Brother --
Go with me to the duchess .
I have it not about me .
What if I had said I had seen him do you wrong ? Or heard him say -- as knaves be such abroad , Who having , by their own importunate suit , Or voluntary dotage of some mistress , Convinced or supplied them , cannot choose But they must blab --
What is your tidings ?
What is the gross sum that I owe thee ?
Nor I.
Or , if you borrow one another 's love for the instant , you may , when you hear no more words of Pompey , return it again . You shall have time to wrangle in when you have nothing else to do .
Sure it is hers .
Can anything be made of this ?
What , is my daughter gone to Friar Lawrence ?
O yet , for God 's sake , go not to these wars . The time was , father , that you broke your word , When you were more endeared to it than now , When your own Percy , when my heart 's dear Harry , Threw many a northward look to see his father Bring up his powers ; but he did long in vain . Who then persuaded you to stay at home ? There were two honors lost , yours and your son 's . For yours , the God of heaven brighten it . For his , it stuck upon him as the sun In the gray vault of heaven , and by his light Did all the chivalry of England move To do brave acts . He was indeed the glass Wherein the noble youth did dress themselves . He had no legs that practiced not his gait ; And speaking thick , which nature made his blemish , Became the accents of the valiant ; For those that could speak low and tardily Would turn their own perfection to abuse
I cannot tell wat is dat .
Most sure and vulgar . Everyone hears that That can distinguish sound .
I had been happy if the general camp , Pioneers and all , had tasted her sweet body , So I had nothing known . Oh , now forever Farewell the tranquil mind ! Farewell content ! Farewell the plumed troops and the big wars That makes ambition virtue ! Oh , farewell ! Farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump , The spirit - stirring drum , th ' ear-piercing fife , The royal banner , and all quality , Pride , pomp , and circumstance of glorious war ! And O you mortal engines , whose rude throats The immortal Jove 's dead clamors counterfeit , Farewell ! Othello 's occupation 's gone .
Dost thou hear , Hal ? Thou knowest in the state of innocency Adam fell , and what should poor Jack Falstaff do in the days of villany ? Thou seest I have more flesh than another man and therefore more frailty . You confess , then , you picked my pocket ?
I know you are not ignorant --
I will be angry . What hast thou to do?- - Father , be quiet . He shall stay my leisure .
And shall , or some of us will smart for it .
Yes , I have gained my experience .
Good morrow to thee . Welcome . Thou look 'st like him that knows a warlike charge . To business that we love we rise betimes And go to ' t with delight .
The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve . Lovers , to bed . ' Tis almost fairy time . I fear we shall outsleep the coming morn As much as we this night have overwatched . This palpable - gross play hath well beguiled The heavy gait of night . Sweet friends , to bed . A fortnight hold we this solemnity , In nightly revels and new jollity .
Why , so I can , sir , but I will not now . This is a trick to put me from my suit . Pray you , let Cassio be received again .
What well-appointed leader fronts us here ?
A man is well holp up that trusts to you ! I promised your presence and the chain , But neither chain nor goldsmith came to me . Belike you thought our love would last too long If it were chained together , and therefore came not .
O Banquo , Banquo , Our royal master 's murdered !
Come , you shall have Trent turned .
Stand !
Gracious madam , I that do bring the news made not the match .
The king comes here tonight .
O Charmian , Where think 'st thou he is now ? Stands he or sits he ? Or does he walk ? Or is he on his horse ? O happy horse , to bear the weight of Antony ! Do bravely , horse , for wott 'st thou whom thou mov'st ? The demi - Atlas of this earth , the arm And burgonet of men . He 's speaking now , Or murmuring " Where 's my serpent of old Nile ? " For so he calls me . Now I feed myself With most delicious poison . Think on me , That am with Phoebus ' amorous pinches black And wrinkled deep in time . Broad - fronted Caesar , When thou wast here above the ground , I was A morsel for a monarch . And great Pompey Would stand and make his eyes grow in my brow . There would he anchor his aspect , and die With looking on his life .
Ay , my good lord . Safe in a ditch he bides , With twenty trenched gashes on his head , The least a death to nature .
Methought I heard a voice cry , " Sleep no more ! Macbeth does murder sleep " -- the innocent sleep , Sleep that knits up the raveled sleave of care , The death of each day 's life , sore labor 's bath , Balm of hurt minds , great nature 's second course , Chief nourisher in life 's feast .
Her husband , knave . Wouldst thou betray me ?
The villain Jew with outcries raised the Duke , Who went with him to search Bassanio 's ship .
I will go before , sir . -- Mistress , look out at window , for all this . There will come a Christian by Will be worth a Jewess ' eye .
Did you converse , sir , with this gentlewoman ? What is the course and drift of your compact ?
I warrant you , madam .
The king and queen and all are coming down .
Nay , now thou goest from Fortune 's office to Nature 's . Fortune reigns in gifts of the world , not in the lineaments of Nature .
Here he comes , and the Scots captain , Captain Jamy , with him .
Is it his use ? Or did the letters work upon his blood And new - create his fault ?
Faith , as cold as can be .
I neither know it nor can learn of him .
That 's my noble master ! What shall I do ? Say , what ? What shall I do ?
Is he alone ?
Tedious it were to tell and harsh to hear . Sufficeth I am come to keep my word , Though in some part enforced to digress , Which , at more leisure , I will so excuse As you shall well be satisfied withal . But where is Kate ? I stay too long from her . The morning wears . ' Tis time we were at church .
There 's more depends on this than on the value . The dearest ring in Venice will I give you , And find it out by proclamation . Only for this , I pray you , pardon me .
Marry , I saw your niece do more favors to the Count 's servingman than ever she bestowed upon me . I saw ' t i ' the orchard .
Part them ! They are incensed .
I see a good amendment of life in thee , from praying to purse - taking .
Thou art the best o ' th ' cutthroats : Yet he 's good that did the like for Fleance . If thou didst it , thou art the nonpareil .
I know this is a joyful trouble to you , But yet ' tis one .
Count , take of me my daughter , and with her my fortunes . His grace hath made the match , and all grace say " Amen " to it .
You kill me to deny it . Farewell .
How with mine honor may I give him that Which I have given to you ?
In such a night Medea gathered the enchanted herbs That did renew old AEson .
' Tis better playing with a lion 's whelp Than with an old one dying .
You shall , Mark Antony .
Hie to high fortune ! Honest Nurse , farewell .
Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she willfully seeks her own salvation ?
A laughter .
Ah , cut my lace asunder , That my pent heart may have some scope to beat , Or else I swoon with this dead - killing news !
Say " a day " without the " ever . " No , no , Orlando , men are April when they woo , December when they wed . Maids are May when they are maids , but the sky changes when they are wives . I will be more jealous of thee than a Barbary cock - pigeon over his hen , more clamorous than a parrot against rain , more newfangled than an ape , more giddy in my desires than a monkey . I will weep for nothing , like Diana in the fountain , and I will do that when you are disposed to be merry . I will laugh like a hyena , and that when thou art inclined to sleep .
My lord --
I go , my lord .
You 're sad , Signior Balthasar . Pray God our cheer May answer my good will and your good welcome here .
Were it not that my fellow schoolmaster Doth watch Bianca 's steps so narrowly , ' Twere good , methinks , to steal our marriage , Which , once performed , let all the world say no , I 'll keep mine own despite of all the world .
I am the greatest , able to do least , Yet most suspected , as the time and place Doth make against me , of this direful murder . And here I stand , both to impeach and purge , Myself condemned and myself excused .
We 'll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors .
What 's to be done ?
He will recover straight . When he is gone I would on great occasion speak with you .
Here , catch this casket . It is worth the pains . I am glad ' tis night , you do not look on me , For I am much ashamed of my exchange . But love is blind , and lovers cannot see The pretty follies that themselves commit , For if they could Cupid himself would blush To see me thus transformed to a boy .
Ay , sir , that soaks up the king 's countenance , his rewards , his authorities . But such officers do the king best service in the end . He keeps them , like an ape , in the corner of his jaw , first mouthed to be last swallowed . When he needs what you have gleaned , it is but squeezing you and , sponge , you shall be dry again .
A soothsayer bids you beware the ides of March .
God send the wench no worse fortune ! But I never said so .
And my heart too .
His daughters seek his death . Ah , that good Kent -- He said it would be thus , poor banished man . Thou say 'st the king grows mad . I 'll tell thee , friend , I am almost mad myself . I had a son , Now outlawed from my blood . He sought my life , But lately , very late . I loved him , friend -- No father his son dearer . Truth to tell thee ,
O traitors , villains !
You must needs yield your reason , Sir Andrew .
O Romeo , Romeo , brave Mercutio is dead ! That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds , Which too untimely here did scorn the earth .
When Jacob grazed his uncle Laban 's sheep -- This Jacob from our holy Abram was , As his wise mother wrought in his behalf , The third possessor , ay , he was the third --
Madam , ' tis now in tune .
Why , what is Tybalt ?
I never knew a Florentine more kind and honest .
O , if I thought that , I 'd beat him like a dog !
Soft , take me with you , take me with you , wife . How , will she none ? Doth she not give us thanks ? Is she not proud ? Doth she not count her blessed , Unworthy as she is , that we have wrought So worthy a gentleman to be her bride ?
Have at you with another : that 's --When , can you tell ?
Fly , fly , my lord . There is no tarrying here .
Methinks there is much reason in his sayings .
I have it , Tranio !
Why , my horse , My love , my horse .
No , I warrant you .
Come away , servant , come . I am ready now . Approach , my Ariel , come .
' Tis Hamlet 's character . " Naked " ? And in a postscript here , he says " alone . " Can you advise me ?
That 's a fair thought to lie between maids ' legs .
Nay , that were a punishment too good for them , if they should have any allegiance in them , being chosen for the Prince 's watch .
I will not eat my word . Now thou art mine , Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine .
Well said , master . Mum , and gaze your fill .
Then once more to your Scottish prisoners : Deliver them up without their ransom straight , And make the Douglas ' son your only mean For powers in Scotland , which , for divers reasons Which I shall send you written , be assured Will easily be granted . -- You , my lord , Your son in Scotland being thus employed , Shall secretly into the bosom creep Of that same noble prelate , well beloved , The Archbishop .
This touches me in reputation . Either consent to pay this sum for me , Or I attach you by this officer .
And for the sake of them thou sorrowest for , Do me the favour to dilate at full What hath befall'n of them and thee till now .
Sweet Sir Toby , be patient for tonight . Since the youth of the count 's was today with thy lady , she is much out of quiet . For Monsieur Malvolio , let me alone with him . If I do not gull him into a nayword and make him a common recreation , do not think I have wit enough to lie straight in my bed . I know I can do it .
In my mind 's eye , Horatio .
Fair sir , you are well o'erta'en . My Lord Bassanio upon more advice Hath sent you here this ring , and doth entreat Your company at dinner .
I can tell you , but young Romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you sought him . I am the youngest of that name , for fault of a worse .
Peace , good Doll . Do not speak like a death 's - head; do not bid me remember mine end .
I attend them with all respect and duty .
Thou art a scholar . Speak to it , Horatio .
Such a one is a natural philosopher . Wast ever in court , shepherd ?
First , mighty liege , tell me your Highness ' pleasure , What from your Grace I shall deliver to him .
Some sack , Francis .
If I gave them all my living , I 'd keep my coxcombs myself . There 's mine . Beg another of thy daughters .
Well get you gone . O ' Thursday be it , then . -- Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed . Prepare her , wife , against this wedding day . -- Farewell , my lord . --Light to my chamber , ho ! Afore me ! It is so very late , That we may call it early by and by . -- Good night .
Is not that he ?
He gives you upon his knees a thousand thanks , and he esteems himself happy that he hath fall'n into the hands of one , as he thinks , the most brave , valorous , and thrice - worthy seigneur of England .
But , cousin , what if we assayed to steal The clownish fool out of your father 's court ? Would he not be a comfort to our travel ?
What woman 's man ? And how besides thyself ?
Find them out whose names are written here ? It is written , that the shoemaker should meddle with his yard and the tailor with his last , the fisher with his pencil and the painter with his nets . But I am sent to find those persons whose names are here writ , and can never find what names the writing person hath here writ . I must to the learned in good time !
Why , then thou canst not break her to the lute ?
Well , officer , arrest him at my suit .
Come , Pistol , utter more to me , and withal devise something to do thyself good . Boot , boot , Master Shallow . I know the young King is sick for me . Let us take any man 's horses . The laws of England are at my commandment . Blessed are they that have been my friends , and woe to my Lord Chief Justice !
Why , this is not a boon , ' Tis as I should entreat you wear your gloves , Or feed on nourishing dishes , or keep you warm , Or sue to you to do a peculiar profit To your own person . Nay , when I have a suit Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed It shall be full of poise and difficult weight And fearful to be granted .
None at all .
But hast thou done thy errand to Baptista ?
For certain , sir , he is not . I have a file Of all the gentry . There is Siward 's son , And many unrough youths that even now Protest their first of manhood .
No shame but mine . I must , forsooth , be forced To give my hand , opposed against my heart , Unto a mad - brain rudesby , full of spleen , Who wooed in haste and means to wed at leisure . I told you , I , he was a frantic fool , Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behavior , And , to be noted for a merry man , He 'll woo a thousand , ' point the day of marriage , Make friends , invite , and proclaim the banns , Yet never means to wed where he hath wooed . Now must the world point at poor Katherine And say , " Lo , there is mad Petruchio 's wife , If it would please him come and marry her ! "
Where 's Poins , Hal ?
Fathered he is , and yet he 's fatherless .
No , by no means .
No more !
How can that be , unless she drowned herself in her own defense ?
If it will not be , I 'll leave you .
Come , where is this young gallant that is so desirous to lie with his mother earth ?
Nerissa , cheer yond stranger . Bid her welcome . -- Your hand , Salerio . What 's the news from Venice ? How doth that royal merchant , good Antonio ? I know he will be glad of our success . We are the Jasons , we have won the fleece .
Tom 's a - cold .
Macbeth ! Macbeth ! Macbeth ! Beware Macduff . Beware the thane of Fife . Dismiss me . Enough .
I had a wound here that was like a " T , " But now ' tis made an " H. "
She was false as water .
And , in faith , my lord , I spoke mine .
Alas , how fiery and how sharp he looks !
Mark how he trembles in his ecstasy .
To vow , and swear , and superpraise my parts , When I am sure you hate me with your hearts . You both are rivals , and love Hermia , And now both rivals to mock Helena -- A trim exploit , a manly enterprise , To conjure tears up in a poor maid 's eyes With your derision ! None of noble sort Would so offend a virgin , and extort A poor soul 's patience , all to make you sport .
I have rubbed this young quat almost to the sense , And he grows angry . Now , whether he kill Cassio Or Cassio him , or each do kill the other , Every way makes my gain . Live Roderigo , He calls me to a restitution large Of gold and jewels that I bobbed from him As gifts to Desdemona . It must not be . If Cassio do remain He hath a daily beauty in his life That makes me ugly . And besides , the Moor May unfold me to him -- there stand I in much peril . No , he must die . But so , I hear him coming .
Peace , I say . --Good even to you , friend .
Dost thou forget From what a torment I did free thee ?
' Tis passing good . I prithee let me have it .
Go , Sir Andrew . Scout me for him at the corner the orchard like a bum - baily . So soon as ever thou seest him , draw , and as thou drawest , swear horrible , for it comes to pass oft that a terrible oath , with a swaggering accent sharply twanged off , gives manhood more approbation than ever proof itself would have earned him . Away !
And thereof came it that the man was mad . The venom clamors of a jealous woman Poisons more deadly than a mad dog 's tooth . It seems his sleeps were hinder 'd by thy railing , And therefore comes it that his head is light . Thou sayst his meat was sauced with thy upbraidings . Unquiet meals make ill digestions . Thereof the raging fire of fever bred , And what 's a fever but a fit of madness ? Thou sayest his sports were hinderd by thy brawls . Sweet recreation barred , what doth ensue But moody and dull melancholy , Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair , And at her heels a huge infectious troop Of pale distemperatures and foes to life ? In food , in sport , and life-preserving rest To be disturbed , would mad or man or beast . The consequence is , then , thy jealous fits Have scared thy husband from the use of wits .
Rumble thy bellyful ! Spit , fire ! Spout , rain ! Nor rain , wind , thunder , fire are my daughters . I tax not you , you elements , with unkindness . I never gave you kingdom , called you children . You owe me no subscription . Why then , let fall Your horrible pleasure . Here I stand , your slave -- A poor , infirm , weak , and despised old man . But yet I call you servile ministers , That will with two pernicious daughters joined Your high engendered battles ' gainst a head So old and white as this . Oh , ho ! ' Tis foul .
The perdition of th ' athversary hath been very great , reasonable great . Marry , for my part , I think the duke hath lost never a man , but one that is like to be executed for robbing a church , one Bardolph , if your Majesty know the man . His face is all bubukles and whelks and knobs and flames o ' fire ; and his lips blows at his nose , and it is like a coal of fire , sometimes plue and sometimes red , but his nose is executed , and his fire 's out .
Which spongy April at thy hest betrims To make cold nymphs chaste crowns ; and thy broom groves , Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves , Being lass - lorn; thy pole - clipped vineyard ; And thy sea - marge , sterile and rocky hard , Where thou thyself dost air -- the Queen o ' th ' Sky , Whose watery arch and messenger am I , Bids thee leave these , and with her sovereign grace ,
Oh , God help me , God help me ! How long have you professed apprehension ?
I thank your Grace for this high courtesy , Which I shall give away immediately .
If I live to see it , I will never trust his word after .
My gentleman , Cesario ?
What beast ? Why , an otter .
Ay , sir . She took them , read them in my presence , And now and then an ample tear trilled down Her delicate cheek . It seemed she was a queen Over her passion , who , most rebel - like , Sought to be king o'er her .
That it would please you leave these sad designs To him that hath more cause to be a mourner , And presently repair to Crosby House , Where , after I have solemnly interred At Chertsey monast'ry this noble king And wet his grave with my repentant tears , I will with all expedient duty see you . For divers unknown reasons , I beseech you , Grant me this boon .
Ha ! Sayest thou so ?
Had his great name profaned with their scorns , And gave his countenance , against his name , To laugh at gibing boys and stand the push Of every beardless vain comparative ; Grew a companion to the common streets , Enfeoffed himself to popularity , That , being daily swallowed by men 's eyes , They surfeited with honey and began To loathe the taste of sweetness , whereof a little More than a little is by much too much . So , when he had occasion to be seen , He was but as the cuckoo is in June , Heard , not regarded ; seen , but with such eyes As , sick and blunted with community , Afford no extraordinary gaze Such as is bent on sunlike majesty When it shines seldom in admiring eyes , But rather drowsed and hung their eyelids down , Slept in his face , and rendered such aspect As cloudy men use to their adversaries , Being with his presence glutted , gorged , and full . And in that very line , Harry , standest thou , For thou has lost thy princely privilege With vile participation . Not an eye But is aweary of thy common sight , Save mine , which hath desired to see thee more , Which now doth that I would not have it do , Make blind itself with foolish tenderness .
The wonder is he hath endured so long . He but usurped his life .
Tranio , since for the great desire I had To see fair Padua , nursery of arts , I am arrived for fruitful Lombardy , The pleasant garden of great Italy , And by my father 's love and leave am armed With his goodwill and thy good company . My trusty servant , well approved in all , Here let us breathe and haply institute A course of learning and ingenious studies . Pisa , renowned for grave citizens , Gave me my being and my father first , A merchant of great traffic through the world , Vincentio , come of the Bentivolii . Vincentio 's son , brought up in Florence , It shall become to serve all hopes conceived To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds . And therefore , Tranio , for the time I study Virtue , and that part of philosophy Will I apply that treats of happiness By virtue specially to be achieved . Tell me thy mind , for I have Pisa left And am to Padua come , as he that leaves A shallow plash to plunge him in the deep And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst .
Look behind you , my lord .
To her , widow !
Ask him his purposes , why he appears Upon this call o ' th ' trumpet .
I came hither to tell you ; and , circumstances shortened , for she has been too long a - talking of , the lady is disloyal .
And all the better is it for the maid . Your part in her you could not keep from death , But heaven keeps his part in eternal life . The most you sought was her promotion , For ' twas your heaven she should be advanced . And weep ye now , seeing she is advanced Above the clouds , as high as heaven itself ? Oh , in this love , you love your child so ill That you run mad , seeing that she is well . She 's not well married that lives married long , But she 's best married that dies married young . Dry up your tears and stick your rosemary On this fair corse , and , as the custom is , And in her best array , bear her to church . For though some nature bids us all lament , Yet nature 's tears are reason 's merriment .
For your dwelling -- briefly .
None , Brutus , none .
If this letter move him not , his legs cannot . I 'll give ' t him .
I have seen thee in her and I do adore thee . My mistress showed me thee and thy dog and thy bush .
In himself he is . But in this kind , wanting your father 's voice , The other must be held the worthier .
The duke be here tonight ? The better -- best ! This weaves itself perforce into my business . My father hath set guard to take my brother . And I have one thing , of a queasy question , Which I must act . Briefness and fortune , work ! -- Brother , a word . Descend , brother , I say .
Your ear is good . Cassius , what night is this !
He thinks , being twenty times of better fortune , He is twenty men to one .
How now , Fluellen , cam 'st thou from the bridge ?
All furnished , all in arms , All plumed like estridges that with the wind Baited like eagles having lately bathed , Glittering in golden coats like images , As full of spirit as the month of May , And gorgeous as the sun at midsummer , Wanton as youthful goats , wild as young bulls . I saw young Harry with his beaver on , His cuisses on his thighs , gallantly armed Rise from the ground like feathered Mercury And vaulted with such ease into his seat As if an angel dropped down from the clouds , To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus And witch the world with noble horsemanship .
Do you hear , ho ? you must meet my master to countenance my mistress .
Welcome , Jack . Where hast thou been ?
It gives me wonder great as my content To see you here before me . Oh , my soul 's joy ! If after every tempest come such calms , May the winds blow till they have wakened death , And let the laboring bark climb hills of seas Olympus - high , and duck again as low As hell 's from heaven ! If it were now to die , ' Twere now to be most happy , for I fear My soul hath her content so absolute That not another comfort like to this Succeeds in unknown fate .
Yes , it is already garrisoned .
I will give thee for it a thousand pound . Ask me when thou wilt , and thou shalt have it .
Sirrah , go see what trumpet ' tis that sounds .
Welcome , Signior . You are almost come to part almost a fray .
And therefore , since I cannot prove a lover To entertain these fair well-spoken days , I am determined to prove a villain And hate the idle pleasures of these days . Plots have I laid , inductions dangerous , By drunken prophecies , libels and dreams , To set my brother Clarence and the king In deadly hate , the one against the other ; And if King Edward be as true and just As I am subtle , false , and treacherous , This day should Clarence closely be mewed up About a prophecy which says that " G " Of Edward 's heirs the murderer shall be . Dive , thoughts , down to my soul . Here Clarence comes .
Look you , if you take the matter otherwise than is meant , Captain Macmorris , peradventure I shall think you do not use me with that affability as , in discretion , you ought to use me , look you , being as good a man as yourself , both in the disciplines of war and in the derivation of my birth and in other particularities .
Come , thou shalt go to the wars in a gown . We will have away thy cold , and I will take such order that my friends shall ring for thee . -- Is here all ?
Is ' t even so ?
Pray thee , marry us .
Come , come , you 're drunk .
Madam , here comes my lord .
Yea , marry , that 's the eftest way . --Let the watch come forth . Masters , I charge you in the Prince 's name , accuse these men .
Sir John , I arrest you at the suit of Mistress Quickly .
And come with naked swords . Let 's call more help To have them bound again .
I do not like the office . But , sith I am entered in this cause so far , Pricked to ' t by foolish honesty and love , I will go on . I lay with Cassio lately And , being troubled with a raging tooth , I could not sleep . There are a kind of men So loose of soul that in their sleeps will mutter
But Antonio is certainly undone .
That done , repair to Pompey 's theatre .
A Roman .
You were about to speak .
By my life I do , which I tender dearly , though I say I am a magician . Therefore put you in your best array , bid your friends ; for if you will be married tomorrow , you shall , and to Rosalind , if you will .
I think not so , my lord .
At least two glasses . The time ' twixt six and now Must by us both be spent most preciously .
O Romeo , Romeo ! Wherefore art thou Romeo ? Deny thy father and refuse thy name . Or , if thou wilt not , be but sworn my love , And I 'll no longer be a Capulet .
I had forgot that foul conspiracy Of the beast Caliban and his confederates Against my life . The minute of their plot Is almost come . --Well done . Avoid , no more !
I go , my lord .
Were you well served , you would be taught your duty .
Poor soul , thy face is much abused with tears .
The body is with the king , but the king is not with the body . The king is a thing --
O , what a time have you chose out , brave Caius , To wear a kerchief ! Would you were not sick !
Most villanously , like a pedant that keeps a school i ' the church . I have dogged him , like his murderer . He does obey every point of the letter that I dropped to betray him . He does smile his face into more lines than is in the new map with the augmentation of the Indies . You have not seen such a thing as ' tis . I can hardly forbear hurling things at him . I know my lady will strike him . If she do , he 'll smile and take ' t for a great favor .
And when please you to say so ?
Stand , ho !
But she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius .
There 's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark But he 's an arrant knave .
He is , Sir John . I fear we shall stay too long .
Look how our partner 's rapt .
When did she send thee ?
A hundred thousand rebels die in this . Thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein .
Yea , or tonight .
Blow , blow , thou winter wind . Thou art not so unkind As man 's ingratitude . Thy tooth is not so keen , Because thou art not seen , Although thy breath be rude . Heigh-ho , sing heigh-ho , unto the green holly . Most friendship is feigning , most loving mere folly . Then heigh-ho , the holly . This life is most jolly . Freeze , freeze , thou bitter sky , That dost not bite so nigh As benefits forgot . Though thou the waters warp , Thy sting is not so sharp As friend remembered not . Heigh-ho , sing heigh-ho , unto the green holly . Most friendship is feigning , most loving mere folly . Then heigh-ho , the holly . This life is most jolly .
It would be spoke to .
When shall we three meet again ? In thunder , lightning , or in rain ?
Come hither , Catesby . Rumor it abroad That Anne my wife is very grievous sick . I will take order for her keeping close . Inquire me out some mean poor gentleman , Whom I will marry straight to Clarence ' daughter . The boy is foolish , and I fear not him . Look how thou dream'st ! I say again , give out That Anne my queen is sick and like to die . About it , for it stands me much upon To stop all hopes whose growth may damage me .
Why came not the slave back to me when I called him .
Can any of your neighbors tell , Kate ? I 'll ask them . Come , I know thou lovest me ; and at night , when you come into your closet , you 'll question this gentlewoman about me , and , I know , Kate , you will to her dispraise those parts in me that you love with your heart . But , good Kate , mock me mercifully , the rather , gentle princess , because I love thee cruelly . If ever thou beest mine , Kate , as I have a saving faith within me tells me thou shalt , I get thee with scambling , and thou must therefore needs prove a good soldier - breeder . Shall not thou and I , between Saint Denis
Must I speak now ?
' Slight , will you make an ass o ' me ?
By ' r lakin , I can go no further , sir . My old bones ache . Here 's a maze trod indeed Through forthrights and meanders . By your patience , I needs must rest me .
Now fare you well , good sir .
A shorter time shall send me to you , lords , And in my conduct shall your ladies come , From whom you now must steal and take no leave , For there will be a world of water shed Upon the parting of your wives and you .
As I did stand my watch upon the hill , I looked toward Birnam , and anon methought The wood began to move .
When I dissuaded him from his intent , And found him pight to do it , with cursed speech I threatened to discover him . He replied , " Thou unpossessing bastard ! Dost thou think If I would stand against thee , would the reposal Of any trust , virtue , or worth in thee Make thy words faithed ? No. What I should deny -- As this I would , ay , though thou didst produce My very character --I 'd turn it all To thy suggestion , plot , and damned practice . And thou must make a dullard of the world , If they not thought the profits of my death Were very pregnant and potential spirits To make thee seek it . "
Even he .
I know his soul is in heaven , fool .
I cry you mercy . Here 's Cassio hurt by villains .
If it be , Why seems it so particular with thee ?
I know not what I shall think of that . But I am Launcelot , the Jew 's man , and I am sure Margery your wife is my mother .
I stay but for my guard . On , to the field ! I will the banner from a trumpet take And use it for my haste . Come , come away . The sun is high , and we outwear the day .
Not wind ? It shall , it must . You see it doth .
Indeed !
He apprehends a world of figures here , But not the form of what he should attend . -- Good cousin , give me audience for a while .
Ay , that 's a colt indeed , for he doth nothing but talk of his horse , and he makes it a great appropriation to his own good parts that he can shoe him himself . I am much afeard my lady his mother played false with a smith .
Went he hence now ?
My lord , this would not be believed in Venice , Though I should swear I saw ' t . ' Tis very much . Make her amends , she weeps .
Why , man ?
Dear master , I can go no further . Oh , I die for food . Here lie I down and measure out my grave . Farewell , kind master .
I would rather have one of your father 's getting . Hath your grace ne'er a brother like you ? Your father got excellent husbands , if a maid could come by them .
How every fool can play upon the word ! I think the best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence , and discourse grow commendable in none only but parrots . Go in , sirrah . Bid them prepare for dinner .
Name him .
Ride you this afternoon ?
O Brutus !
Ay , while you live , draw your neck out of collar .
Who is it ?
To th ' monument ! -- Mardian , go tell him I have slain myself . Say that the last I spoke was " Antony , " And word it , prithee , piteously . Hence , Mardian , And bring me how he takes my death . To th ' monument !
Some men there are love not a gaping pig , Some that are mad if they behold a cat , And others , when the bagpipe sings i ' th ' nose , Cannot contain their urine . For affection , Mistress of passion , sways it to the mood Of what it likes or loathes . Now , for your answer : As there is no firm reason to be rendered Why he cannot abide a gaping pig ; Why he , a harmless necessary cat ; Why he , a woollen bagpipe , but of force Must yield to such inevitable shame As to offend , himself being offended -- So can I give no reason , nor I will not ( More than a lodged hate and a certain loathing I bear Antonio ) , that I follow thus A losing suit against him . Are you answered ?
How now , you dog ?
I 'll tear her all to pieces !
Why I your purse ?
I am not in a sportive humor now . Tell me , and dally not : where is the money ? We being strangers here , how dar 'st thou trust So great a charge from thine own custody ?
And run through fire I will for thy sweet sake . Transparent Helena ! Nature shows art That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart . Where is Demetrius ? Oh , how fit a word Is that vile name to perish on my sword !
Regan , I think you are . I know what reason I have to think so : if thou shouldst not be glad , I would divorce me from thy mother 's tomb , Sepulchring an adultress . Oh , are you free ? Some other time for that .
Sirs , you four shall front them in the narrow lane . Ned Poins and I will walk lower . If they 'scape from your encounter , then they light on us .
I never heard a passion so confused , So strange , outrageous , and so variable , As the dog Jew did utter in the streets . " My daughter ! O my ducats ! O my daughter , Fled with a Christian ! O my Christian ducats ! Justice , the law , my ducats , and my daughter ! A sealed bag , two sealed bags of ducats , Of double ducats , stol'n from me by my daughter ! And jewels -- two stones , two rich and precious stones -- Stol'n by my daughter ! Justice , find the girl ! She hath the stones upon her , and the ducats . "
Marry , my lord , Althea dreamt she was delivered of a firebrand , and therefore I call him her dream .
Master , a marcantant , or a pedant , I know not what , but formal in apparel , In gait and countenance surely like a father .
I have them ready .
If it please you . Yet Count Claudio may hear , for what I would speak of concerns him .
Not now to hear thee sing . I take no pleasure In aught an eunuch has . ' Tis well for thee That , being unseminared , thy freer thoughts May not fly forth of Egypt . Hast thou affections ?
Sauf votre honneur , le francais que vous parlez , il est meilleur que l' anglais lequel je parle .
This did I fear , but thought he had no weapon , For he was great of heart .
Now are we well prepared to know the pleasure Of our fair cousin Dauphin , for we hear Your greeting is from him , not from the king .
What 's the matter ?
You draw me , you hard-hearted adamant . But yet you draw not iron , for my heart Is true as steel . Leave you your power to draw , And I shall have no power to follow you .
Then ' tis he : the rest That are within the note of expectation Already are i ' th ' court .
You have it full , Benedick . We may guess by this what you are , being a man . Truly , the lady fathers herself . --Be happy , lady , for you are like an honorable father .
" Alice Madam , " or " Joan Madam " ?
Well , think of marriage now . Younger than you Here in Verona , ladies of esteem Are made already mothers . By my count , I was your mother much upon these years That you are now a maid . Thus then in brief : The valiant Paris seeks you for his love .
By the world , I think my wife be honest and think she is not . I think that thou art just and think thou art not . I 'll have some proof . Her name , that was as fresh As Dian 's visage , is now begrimed and black As mine own face . If there be cords or knives , Poison , or fire , or suffocating streams , I 'll not endure it . Would I were satisfied !
O Seigneur Dieu !
And then ?
Beguiled , divorced , wronged , spited , slain ! Most detestable Death , by thee beguiled , By cruel , cruel thee quite overthrown ! O love ! O life ! Not life , but love in death .
Ay , my liege , so please you give us leave .
What proof shall I make of that ?
It doth not fit me . Hold , sir , here 's my purse . In the south suburbs , at the Elephant , Is best to lodge . I will bespeak our diet , Whiles you beguile the time and feed your knowledge With viewing of the town . There shall you have me .
How goes the world , sir , now ?
Save you , worthy general !
Farewell , Ophelia , and remember well What I have said to you .
My lord , I would that Thursday were tomorrow .
Oh , I am fortune 's fool !
Yes , Shylock , I will seal unto this bond .
It doth so .
And look to have it yielded with all kindness . Come , let us sup betimes , that afterwards We may digest our complots in some form .
Under the earth .
Sirrah , a word with you . Attend those men Our pleasure ?
Why say you so ? Looks he not for supply ?
Ay me , detested ! How am I beguiled !
And so they shall .
Alas , your too much love and care of me Are heavy orisons ' gainst this poor wretch . If little faults proceeding on distemper Shall not be winked at , how shall we stretch our eye When capital crimes , chewed , swallowed , and digested , Appear before us ? We 'll yet enlarge that man , Though Cambridge , Scroop , and Grey , in their dear care And tender preservation of our person , Would have him punished . And now to our French causes . Who are the late commissioners ?
And look whether the fiery trigon , his man , be not lisping to his master 's old tables , his notebook , his counsel keeper .
Ah sir , ah sir . Death 's the end of all .
Caesar shall forth . The things that threatened me Ne'er looked but on my back . When they shall see The face of Caesar , they are vanished .
The king , sir , hath wagered with him six Barbary horses , against the which he has impawned , as I take it , six French rapiers and poniards with their assigns -- as girdle , hangers , and so . Three of the carriages , in faith , are very dear to fancy , very responsive to the hilts , most delicate carriages , and of very liberal conceit .
Briefly , I dwell by the Capitol .
Oh , a cherubim Thou wast that did preserve me . Thou didst smile Infused with a fortitude from heaven , When I have decked the sea with drops full salt , Under my burthen groaned ; which raised in me An undergoing stomach to bear up Against what should ensue .
The English force , so please you .
Thy reason , man ?
Why , get you gone ! Who is ' t that hinders you ?
Say not so , Agrippa . If Cleopatra heard you , your reproof Were well deserved of rashness .
You gave me none . You wrong me much to say so .
Why , what you will .
This had been cheerful after victory .
O , know he is the bridle of your will .
To , to , to --
When I did make thee free , swor 'st thou not then To do this when I bade thee ? Do it at once , Or thy precedent services are all But accidents unpurposed . Draw and come .
No , great king . I come to thee for charitable license , That we may wander o'er this bloody field To book our dead and then to bury them ; To sort our nobles from our common men , For many of our princes -- woe the while ! -- Lie drowned and soaked in mercenary blood . So do our vulgar drench their peasant limbs In blood of princes , and the wounded steeds Fret fetlock deep in gore , and with wild rage Yerk out their armed heels at their dead masters , Killing them twice . Oh , give us leave , great king , To view the field in safety and dispose Of their dead bodies .
Do so . We 'll speak to them , and tonight I 'll force The wine peep through their scars . --Come on , my Queen , There 's sap in ' t yet . The next time I do fight I 'll make Death love me , for I will contend Even with his pestilent scythe .
The next advantage Will we take throughly .
She is damned for it .
Would I were with him , wheresome'er he is , either in heaven or in hell .
Why , the enemy is loud . You hear him all night .
The borrowed glories that , by gift of heaven , By law of nature and of nations , ' longs To him and to his heirs -- namely , the crown And all wide - stretched honors that pertain By custom and the ordinance of times Unto the crown of France . That you may know ' Tis no sinister nor no awkward claim Picked from the wormholes of long-vanished days , Nor from the dust of old oblivion raked , He sends you this most memorable line , In every branch truly demonstrative , Willing you overlook this pedigree , And when you find him evenly derived From his most famed of famous ancestors , Edward the Third , he bids you then resign Your crown and kingdom , indirectly held From him , the native and true challenger .
By my troth , I care not . A man can die but once . We owe God a death . I 'll ne'er bear a base mind . An ' t be my destiny , so ; an ' t be not , so . No man 's too good to serve 's prince , and let it go which way it will , he that dies this year is quit for the next .
Ned , where are our disguises ?
His legs bestrid the ocean . His reared arm Crested the world . His voice was propertied As all the tuned spheres , and that to friends . But when he meant to quail and shake the orb , He was as rattling thunder . For his bounty , There was no winter in ' t , an autumn ' twas That grew the more by reaping . His delights Were dolphinlike ; they showed his back above The element they lived in . In his livery Walked crowns and crownets . Realms and islands were As plates dropped from his pocket .
Ay me , what act That roars so loud and thunders in the index ?
By sea , what else ?
I marvel Cambio comes not all this while .
And all my children ?
I 'll give you a verse to this note that I made yesterday in despite of my invention .
Go to . --Will you , Orlando , have to wife this Rosalind ?
Heaven doth truly know it .
Here is a dear , a true - industrious friend , Sir Walter Blunt , new lighted from his horse . Stained with the variation of each soil Betwixt that Holmedon and this seat of ours , And he hath brought us smooth and welcome news . The Earl of Douglas is discomfited ; Ten thousand bold Scots , two - and - twenty knights , Balked in their own blood , did Sir Walter see On Holmedon 's plains . Of prisoners Hotspur took Mordake , Earl of Fife , and eldest son To beaten Douglas , and the Earl of Atholl , Of Murray , Angus , and Menteith . And is not this an honorable spoil ? A gallant prize ? Ha , cousin , is it not ?
He hath no daughters , sir .
I protest , in the sincerity of love and honest kindness .
Why , cousin ! Why , Rosalind ! Cupid have mercy , not a word ?
A good note , that keeps you from the blow of the law .
Prithee , nuncle , tell me whether a madman be a gentleman or a yeoman ?
Grandam , we can , for my good uncle Gloucester Told me the king , provoked to it by the queen , Devised impeachments to imprison him ; And when my uncle told me so , he wept , And pitied me , and kindly kissed my cheek , Bade me rely on him as on my father , And he would love me dearly as a child .
Very bootless .
People and senators , be not affrighted . Fly not . Stand still . Ambition 's debt is paid .
I 'll fight till from my bones my flesh be hacked . Give me my armor .
Thine 's too thick to shine .
Go to . I have spoke at a word . God keep you .
Here comes the lord of Buckingham , and Derby .
Armed , say you ?
Peace ! Count the clock .
Well , I will undertake it . What beard were I best to play it in ?
As the honey of Hybla , my old lad of the castle . And is not a buff jerkin a most sweet robe of durance ?
O you sir , you , come you hither , sir . Who am I , sir ?
How , sir ? How ?
Welcome , my lord . I dance attendance here . I think the duke will not be spoke withal .
Ay , my lord . They stay upon your patience .
Prithee , Kate , let 's stand aside and see the end of this controversy .
How now , how now ? What say the citizens ?
Lucius , who 's that knocking ?
Vex not his ghost . O , let him pass . He hates him That would upon the rack of this tough world Stretch him out longer .
How ill it follows , after you have labored so hard , you should talk so idly ! Tell me , how many good young princes would do so , their fathers being so sick as yours at this time is ?
From him , and thus he greets your Majesty : He wills you , in the name of God Almighty , That you divest yourself and lay apart
The curse my noble father laid on thee When thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper , And with thy scorns drew 'st rivers from his eyes , And then , to dry them , gav 'st the duke a clout Steeped in the faultless blood of pretty Rutland -- His curses then , from bitterness of soul Denounced against thee , are all fall'n upon thee , And God , not we , hath plagued thy bloody deed .
Say as he says , or we shall never go .
Oh , was she so ? I must Once in a month recount what thou hast been , Which thou forget'st . This damned witch Sycorax , For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible To enter human hearing , from Argier , Thou know'st , was banished . For one thing she did They would not take her life . Is not this true ?
Go , take it up unto thy master 's use .
Ay , ay , he told his mind upon mine ear . Beshrew his hand , I scarce could understand it .
A messenger from the galleys .
Why , thou hast put him in such a dream that when the image of it leaves him he must run mad .
But I have none . The king - becoming graces , As justice , verity , temperance , stableness , Bounty , perseverance , mercy , lowliness , Devotion , patience , courage , fortitude , I have no relish of them but abound In the division of each several crime , Acting it many ways . Nay , had I power , I should Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell , Uproar the universal peace , confound All unity on earth .
Sebastian are you ?
We shall , As I conceive the journey , be at the Mount Before you , Lepidus .
The King hath called his parliament , my lord .
Ay , and the time seems thirty unto me , Being all this time abandoned from your bed .
How now , Malvolio ?
Pray you , content . Come , sire , no more . --What , Oswald , ho ! You , sir , more knave than fool , after your master .
He said the truth . And what said Surrey then ?
One of them is well known , my gracious lord , A gross fat man .
Go to . Stand aside .
Unless I have mista'en his colors much , Which well I am assured I have not done , His regiment lies half a mile , at least , South from the mighty power of the king .
And we will hear it .
If love be blind , love cannot hit the mark . Now will he sit under a medlar tree And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit As maids call medlars when they laugh alone . -- O Romeo , that she were ! Oh , that she were An open arse , and thou a poperin pear . Romeo , good night . I 'll to my truckle bed . This field - bed is too cold for me to sleep . -- Come , shall we go ?
Yes .
Marry , my child , early next Thursday morn , The gallant , young , and noble gentleman , The County Paris , at Saint Peter 's Church , Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride .
Now , forward with your tale . --Prithee , stand farther off .
Peace , I say .
O , sir , I will not be so hard - hearted . I will give out divers schedules of my beauty . It shall be inventoried , and every particle and utensil labeled to my will : as , item , two lips indifferent red ; item , two grey eyes , with lids to them ; item , one neck , one chin , and so forth . Were you sent hither to praise me ?
Was it not yesterday we spoke together ?
No , some of it is for my child 's father . Oh , how full of briers is this working - day world !
With this shepherdess , my sister , here in the skirts of the forest like fringe upon a petticoat .
Who doth ambition shun And loves to live i ' th ' sun , Seeking the food he eats And pleased with what he gets , Come hither , come hither , come hither . Here shall he see No enemy But winter and rough weather .
Hang yourself , you muddy conger , hang yourself !
None good , my liege , to please you with the hearing , Nor none so bad but well may be reported .
You might have rhymed .
" Lower " ? Hark , again !
Master young man , you , I pray you , which is the way to Master Jew 's ?
Ay , so please your Majesty . The duke of Exeter has very gallantly maintained the pridge . The French is gone off , look you , and there is gallant and most prave passages . Marry , th ' athversary was have possession of the pridge , but he is enforced to retire , and the duke of Exeter is master of the pridge . I can tell your Majesty , the duke is a prave man .
Madam , bethink you , like a careful mother , Of the young prince your son . Send straight for him . Let him be crowned . In him your comfort lives . Drown desperate sorrow in dead Edward 's grave And plant your joys in living Edward 's throne .
How does the queen ?
Why , he that cuts off twenty years of life Cuts off so many years of fearing death .
Why , when , I say?- -Nay , good sweet Kate , be merry . -- Off with my boots , you rogues ! You villains , when ?
Now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber . Oh , I see that nose of yours , but not that dog I shall throw it to .
A very gentle beast , of a good conscience .
Dear general , I never gave you cause .
I 'll see that straight .
Nay , by God , soft . I know a trick worth two of that , i ' faith .
Many a morning hath he there been seen , With tears augmenting the fresh morning 's dew , Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs . But all so soon as the all - cheering sun Should in the farthest east begin to draw The shady curtains from Aurora 's bed , Away from light steals home my heavy son ,
No , truly , sir . Not a penny .
Canst thou blame him ?
Is there none here to give the woman ?
If it assume my noble father 's person , I 'll speak to it , though Hell itself should gape And bid me hold my peace . I pray you all , If you have hitherto concealed this sight , Let it be tenable in your silence still . And whatsoever else shall hap tonight , Give it an understanding , but no tongue . I will requite your loves . So fare you well . Upon the platform , ' twixt eleven and twelve , I 'll visit you .
Why , shall we turn to men ?
Detested kite , thou liest ! My train are men of choice and rarest parts That all particulars of duty know And in the most exact regard support The worships of their name . O most small fault , How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show , Which like an engine wrenched my frame of nature From the fixed place , drew from heart all love , And added to the gall ! O Lear , Lear , Lear ! Beat at this gate that let thy folly in And thy dear judgment out ! --Go , go , my people .
If he had been forgotten , It had been as a gap in our great feast , And all - thing unbecoming .
I 'll follow thee and make a heaven of hell , To die upon the hand I love so well .
I shall be reconciled to him again .
The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could carry cannon by our sides . I would it might be hangers till then . But , on : six Barbary horses against six French swords , their assigns , and three liberal - conceited carriages -- that 's the French bet against the Danish . Why is this " impawned , " as you call it ?
Not if the small come first .
Well then , I know thee . What shall I know of thee ?
How do you , Malvolio ?
Look you who comes here , a young man and an old in solemn talk .
And will she yet abase her eyes on me , That cropped the golden prime of this sweet prince And made her widow to a woeful bed ? On me , whose all not equals Edward 's moiety ? On me , that halts and am misshapen thus ? My dukedom to a beggarly denier , I do mistake my person all this while ! Upon my life , she finds , although I cannot , Myself to be a marv'lous proper man . I 'll be at charges for a looking glass And entertain a score or two of tailors To study fashions to adorn my body . Since I am crept in favor with myself , I will maintain it with some little cost . But first I 'll turn yon fellow in his grave And then return lamenting to my love . Shine out , fair sun , till I have bought a glass , That I may see my shadow as I pass .
" Who builds stronger than a mason , a shipwright , or a carpenter ? "
Ay , sir , it is too true , God help the while .
The sixth of July . Your loving friend , Benedick .
It is the cause , it is the cause , my soul . Let me not name it to you , you chaste stars , It is the cause . Yet I 'll not shed her blood , Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow And smooth as monumental alabaster . Yet she must die , else she 'll betray more men . Put out the light , and then put out the light . If I quench thee , thou flaming minister , I can again thy former light restore Should I repent me . But once put out thy light , Thou cunning 'st pattern of excelling nature , I know not where is that Promethean heat That can thy light relume . When I have plucked thy rose I cannot give it vital growth again , It must needs wither . I 'll smell thee on the tree . Oh , balmy breath , that dost almost persuade Justice to break her sword ! One more , one more . Be thus when thou art dead and I will kill thee And love thee after . One more , and that 's the last . So sweet was ne'er so fatal . I must weep , But they are cruel tears . This sorrow 's heavenly , It strikes where it doth love . She wakes .
Why , anything . An honorable murderer , if you will , For naught I did in hate , but all in honor .
Beshrew me but I love her heartily . For she is wise , if I can judge of her . And fair she is , if that mine eyes be true . And true she is , as she hath proved herself . And therefore , like herself -- wise , fair and true -- Shall she be placed in my constant soul .
A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours .
Or docks , or mallows .
How now , what 's the matter ?
Will it never be morning ?
Seest thou not , I say , what a deformed thief this fashion is , how giddily he turns about all the hot bloods between fourteen and five - and - thirty , sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh 's soldiers in the reechy painting , sometime like god Bel 's priests in the old church - window , sometime like the shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry , where his codpiece seems as massy as his club ?
I would have sworn it had , my lord , especially against Benedick .
What , thou meanest an officer ?
With three or four loggerheads amongst three or fourscore hogsheads . I have sounded the very bass string of humility . Sirrah , I am sworn brother to a leash of drawers , and can call them all by their christen names , as Tom , Dick , and Francis . They take it already upon their salvation that though I be but Prince of Wales , yet I am the king of courtesy , and tell me flatly am no proud jack , like Falstaff , but a Corinthian , a lad of mettle , a good boy -- by the Lord , so they call me -- and when I am King of England , I shall command all the good lads in Eastcheap . They call drinking deep " dyeing scarlet , " and when you breathe in your watering , they cry " Hem ! " and bid you " Play it off ! " To conclude , I am so good a proficient in one quarter of an hour that I can drink with any tinker in his own language during my life . I tell thee , Ned , thou hast lost much honor that thou wert not with me in this action ; but , sweet Ned -- to sweeten which name of Ned , I give thee this pennyworth of sugar , clapped even now into my hand by an underskinker , one that never spake other English in his life than " Eight shillings and sixpence , " and " You are welcome , " with this shrill addition , " Anon , anon , sir . --Score a pint of bastard in the Half - moon , " or so . But , Ned , to drive away the time till Falstaff come , I prithee , do thou stand in some by - room while I question my puny drawer to what end he gave me the sugar ; and do thou never leave calling " Francis , " that his tale to me may be nothing but " Anon . " Step aside , and I 'll show thee a precedent .
Dark night , that from the eye his function takes , The ear more quick of apprehension makes . Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense , It pays the hearing double recompense .
Poor Tom , that eats the swimming frog , the toad , the tadpole , the wall newt , and the water ; that in the fury of his heart , when the foul fiend rages , eats cow dung for salads , swallows the old rat and the ditch - dog , drinks the green mantle of the standing pool ; who is whipped from tithing to tithing and stocked , punished and imprisoned ; who hath had three suits to his back , six shirts to his body , Horse to ride and weapon to wear . But mice and rats and such small deer Have been Tom 's food for seven long year . Beware my follower . Peace , Smulkin . Peace , thou fiend !
You may do your will , But he 's a tried and valiant soldier .
He ? Alas , he is poor . He hath nothing .
The king ? Who 's that ?
My curses on her !
Naught to do with Mistress Shore ? I tell thee , fellow , He that doth naught with her , excepting one , Were best he do it secretly , alone .
A cold world , Curtis , in every office but thine , and therefore fire ! Do thy duty , and have thy duty , for my master and mistress are almost frozen to death .
I have two nights watched with you but can perceive no truth in your report . When was it she last walked ?
Here comes his Majesty .
Welcome . Set down your venerable burden , And let him feed .
I.
My lord , I will not undergo this sneap without reply . You call honorable boldness " impudent sauciness . " If a man will make curtsy and say nothing , he is virtuous . No , my lord , my humble duty remembered , I will not be your suitor . I say to you , I do desire deliverance from these officers , being upon hasty employment in the King 's affairs .
The boy gives warning something doth approach . What cursed foot wanders this way tonight To cross my obsequies and true love 's rite ? What with a torch ! Muffle me , night , awhile .
Why , then , take no note of him , but let him go and presently call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are rid of a knave .
His name , my lord , is Tyrrel .
Made you no more offense but what you speak of ?
What if it tempt you toward the flood , my lord , Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff That beetles o'er his base into the sea ,
Thou shalt not be the worse for me : there 's gold .
That if one break , the other will hold . Or , if both break , your gaskins fall .
I prithee , foolish Greek , depart from me . There 's money for thee . If you tarry longer , I shall give worse payment .
Swallows have built In Cleopatra 's sails their nests . The auguries Say they know not , they cannot tell , look grimly , And dare not speak their knowledge . Antony Is valiant and dejected , and by starts His fretted fortunes give him hope and fear Of what he has and has not .
Come , sir , your passado .
How now , what means this , herald ? Know 'st thou not That I have fined these bones of mine for ransom ? Com 'st thou again for ransom ?
Pass .
I shall offend , either to detain or give it . The contents , as in part I understand them , are to blame .
O grim - looked night ! O night with hue so black ! O night , which ever art when day is not ! O night , O night ! Alack , alack , alack ,
Here is more news .
Knock , knock ! Who 's there , in th ' other devil 's name ? Faith , here 's an equivocator that could swear in both the scales against either scale , who committed treason enough for God 's sake , yet could not equivocate to heaven . O , come in , equivocator .
My leisure serves me , pensive daughter , now . -- My lord , we must entreat the time alone .
Let me see them , I beseech you .
O mighty Caesar ! Dost thou lie so low ? Are all thy conquests , glories , triumphs , spoils , Shrunk to this little measure ? Fare thee well . --I know not , gentlemen , what you intend , Who else must be let blood , who else is rank .
Am I like such a fellow ?
Good morrow , neighbor , whither away so fast ?
Oh , If you but knew how you the purpose cherish Whiles thus you mock it ! How , in stripping it , You more invest it ! Ebbing men indeed Most often do so near the bottom run By their own fear or sloth .
Whether this be Or be not , I 'll not swear .
' Gainst nature still ! Thriftless ambition , that will raven up Thine own lives ' means ! Then ' tis most like The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth .
How ! " She 's busy , and she cannot come ! " Is that an answer ?
Lo , how he mocks me ! Wilt thou let him , mylord ?
Hear the ambassadors .
So would not I for your own sake , for I have many ill qualities .
How didst thou ' scape ? How camest thou hither ? Swear by this bottle how thou camest hither . I escaped upon a butt of sack which the sailors heaved o'erboard , by this bottle , which I made of the bark of a tree with mine own hands since I was cast ashore .
Oh , the heavens !
Sir , speed you . What 's your will ?
Awake , awake ! Ring the alarum bell . Murder and treason ! Banquo and Donalbain ! Malcolm ! Awake ! Shake off this downy sleep , death 's counterfeit , And look on death itself ! Up , up , and see The great doom 's image ! Malcolm ! Banquo ! As from your graves rise up , and walk like sprites , To countenance this horror ! Ring the bell
Haste thee for thy life .
A knave teach me my duty ? I 'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle .
Then will I lay the serving creature 's dagger on your pate . I will carry no crotchets . I 'll re you , I 'll fa you . Do you note me ?
O , wonderful , when devils tell the truth !
In that you brook it ill , it makes him worse . Therefore , for God 's sake , entertain good comfort And cheer his grace with quick and merry eyes .
Pluck them asunder .
Or I , I promise thee .
He did comply , sir , with his dug before he sucked it . Thus has he -- and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes on -- only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter , a kind of yeasty collection , which carries them through and through the most fond and winnowed opinions ; and do but blow them to their trial , the bubbles are out .
There 's comfort yet ; they are assailable . Then be thou jocund . Ere the bat hath flown His cloistered flight , ere to black Hecate 's summons The shard - borne beetle with his drowsy hums Hath rung night 's yawning peal , there shall be done A deed of dreadful note .
That 's certain -- if the devil may be her judge .
Oh , when she 's angry , she is keen and shrewd ! She was a vixen when she went to school . And though she be but little , she is fierce .
Is it a man ?
No , sweet Octavia , You shall hear from me still . The time shall not Outgo my thinking on you .
How died my master , Strato ?
An excellent color . Your chestnut was ever the only color .
Go in , Nerissa . Give order to my servants that they take No note at all of our being absent hence . -- Nor you , Lorenzo . --Jessica , nor you .
Welcome . Fall to . I will not trouble you As yet to question you about your fortunes . -- Give us some music , and , good cousin , sing .
I would I had thy inches . Thou shouldst know There were a heart in Egypt .
I am constant to my purpose . They follow the king 's pleasure . If his fitness speaks , mine is ready , now or whensoever , provided I be so able as now .
Ay . But soon that war had end , and the time 's state Made friends of them , joining their force ' gainst Caesar , Whose better issue in the war from Italy Upon the first encounter drave them .
No , forbear . The lethargy must have his quiet course . If not , he foams at mouth and by and by Breaks out to savage madness . Look , he stirs . Do you withdraw yourself a little while ,
Why ?
What , would you have my weapon , little lord ?
Have patience , madam . There 's no doubt his majesty Will soon recover his accustomed health .
Most sweet Queen --
Pay the musicians , sirrah . --Farewell , hostess . --Farewell , Doll . You see , my good wenches , how men of merit are sought after . The undeserver may sleep when the man of action is called on . Farewell , good wenches . If I be not sent away post , I will see you again ere I go .
Sink Rome ! And their tongues rot That speak against us ! A charge we bear i ' th ' war , And as the president of my kingdom will Appear there for a man . Speak not against it . I will not stay behind .
Wilt thou be gone ? It is not yet near day . It was the nightingale , and not the lark , That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear . Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate tree . Believe me , love , it was the nightingale .
She did betray me to my own reproof . Good people , enter and lay hold on him .
And badest me bury love .
Lord , how art thou changed ! How dost thou and thy master agree ? I have brought him a present . How ' gree you now ?
A deed without a name .
Nay , let me praise you while I have a stomach .
Well , niece , I trust you will be ruled by your father .
O Caesar --
Marcus Octavius , Marcus Justeius , Publicola , and Caelius , are for sea ; But we keep whole by land . This speed of Caesar 's Carries beyond belief .
O coz , coz , coz , my pretty little coz , that thou didst know how many fathom deep I am in love . But it cannot be sounded ; my affection hath an unknown bottom , like the Bay of Portugal .
Mark Antony --
What stature is she of ?
Now , Eros .
O Lord , they fight ! I will go call the watch .
I 'll make you amends next , to give you nothing for something . But say , sir , is it dinnertime ?
Nay , an I tell you that , I 'll ne'er look you i ' th ' face again . But those that understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads . But , for mine own part , it was Greek to me . I could tell you more news too . Murellus and Flavius , for pulling scarfs off Caesar 's images , are put to silence . Fare you well . There was more foolery yet , if I could remember it .
Longer , longer .
Behold , sir King , The wronged Duke of Milan , Prospero . For more assurance that a living prince Does now speak to thee , I embrace thy body . And to thee and thy company I bid A hearty welcome .
Setting thy womanhood aside , thou art a beast to say otherwise .
But I will tell you at some meeter season . The business of this man looks out of him . We 'll hear him what he says . Whence are you ?
Down with the topmast ! Yare , lower , lower ! Bring her to try wi ' th ' main course .
Never tell him , my lord , let her wear it out with good counsel .
My services to your lordship .
I am . What must we understand by this ?
Then cursed she Richard , then cursed she Buckingham . Then cursed she Hastings . O , remember , God , To hear her prayer for them , as now for us ! And for my sister and her princely sons , Be satisfied , dear God , with our true blood , Which , as thou know'st , unjustly must be spilt .
Was there ever any man thus beaten out of season , When in the " why " and the " wherefore " is neither rhyme nor reason ? Well , sir , I thank you .
If he could right himself with quarreling , Some of us would lie low .
No.
Even now , sir . On a moderate pace I have since arrived but hither .
Ah , thou spell ! Avaunt !
Not so hot . In his own grace he doth exalt himself More than in your addition .
Where left we last ?
My salad days , When I was green in judgment , cold in blood , To say as I said then . But , come , away . Get me ink and paper . He shall have every day a several greeting , Or I 'll unpeople Egypt .
So happy be the issue , brother England , Of this good day and of this gracious meeting , As we are now glad to behold your eyes -- Your eyes which hitherto have borne in them Against the French that met them in their bent The fatal balls of murdering basilisks . The venom of such looks , we fairly hope , Have lost their quality , and that this day Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love .
I would you were as I would have you be !
True , madam . He , of all the men that ever my foolish eyes looked upon , was the best deserving a fair lady .
My lord of Kent . Remember him hereafter as my honorable friend .
It is my birthday . I had thought t ' have held it poor ; but since my lord Is Antony again , I will be Cleopatra .
Cassius , Be not deceived . If I have veiled my look , I turn the trouble of my countenance Merely upon myself . Vexed I am Of late with passions of some difference , Conceptions only proper to myself , Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors . But let not therefore , my good friends , be grieved -- Among which number , Cassius , be you one -- Nor construe any further my neglect Than that poor Brutus , with himself at war , Forgets the shows of love to other men .
Hath she forsook so many noble matches , Her father and her country , and her friends , To be called " whore " ? Would it not make one weep ?
Nay , for methought yesterday your mistress shrewdly shook your back .
If it be , sir , I pray you , eat none of it .
Nay , gentle Romeo , we must have you dance .
Marry , And I am glad of it with all my heart : I had rather be a kitten and cry " mew " Than one of these same meter balladmongers .
Where is your husband ?
Dexterously , good madonna .
Ay , springes to catch woodcocks . I do know , When the blood burns , how prodigal the soul Lends the tongue vows . These blazes , daughter , Giving more light than heat , extinct in both Even in their promise as it is a - making , You must not take for fire . From this time Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence . Set your entreatments at a higher rate Than a command to parley . For Lord Hamlet , Believe so much in him that he is young , And with a larger tether may he walk Than may be given you . In few , Ophelia , Do not believe his vows , for they are brokers Not of that dye which their investments show , But mere implorators of unholy suits , Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds , The better to beguile . This is for all : I would not , in plain terms , from this time forth , Have you so slander any moment leisure , As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet . Look to ' t , I charge you . Come your ways .
Long live she so . And long live you to think so .
Speak of Mortimer ? Zounds , I will speak of him , and let my soul Want mercy if I do not join with him . Yea , on his part I 'll empty all these veins And shed my dear blood drop by drop in the dust , But I will lift the downtrod Mortimer As high in the air as this unthankful King , As this ingrate and cankered Bolingbroke .
O , farewell , honest soldier . Who hath relieved you ?
We will spare for no wit , I warrant you . Here 's that shall drive some of them to a noncome . Only get the learned writer to set down our excommunication and meet me at the jail .
At last , a little shaking of mine arm And thrice his head thus waving up and down , He raised a sigh so piteous and profound As it did seem to shatter all his bulk And end his being . That done , he lets me go , And , with his head over his shoulder turned , He seemed to find his way without his eyes , For out o ' doors he went without their helps , And to the last bended their light on me .
With an eye of green in ' t .
Forgot you ! No , sir . I could not forget you , for I never saw you before in all my life .
Had I plantation of this isle , my lord --
I will be gone , sir , and not trouble you .
Go , good partner , go , get you to Francis Seacole . Bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the jail . We are now to examination these men .
But didst thou hear without wondering how thy name should be hanged and carved upon these trees ?
Not in a grave , To lay one in , another out to have .
Sit down a while And let us once again assail your ears , That are so fortified against our story , What we have two nights seen .
" I may command where I adore . " Why , she may command me . I serve her , she is my lady . Why , this is evident to any formal capacity . There is no obstruction in this . And the end -- what should that alphabetical position portend ? If I could make that resemble something in me --Softly ! M.O.A.I. --
Well said , Hal ! To it Hal ! Nay , you shall find no boys ' play here , I can tell you .
Nay , I dare not swear it .
The scars upon your honor therefore he Does pity as constrained blemishes , Not as deserved .
My Lord Bassanio gave his ring away Unto the judge that begged it and indeed Deserved it too . And then the boy , his clerk , That took some pains in writing , he begged mine . And neither man nor master would take aught But the two rings .
Do so . And let no man abide this deed But we the doers .
Fled this way , sir , when by no means he could --
Knock , knock ! Never at quiet . What are you ? But this place is too cold for hell . I 'll devil - porter it no further . I had thought to have let in some of all professions that go the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire .
And maybe so we shall .
Come hither , captain . Hark . Take thou this note . Go follow them to prison . One step I have advanced thee . If thou dost As this instructs thee , thou dost make thy way To noble fortunes . Know thou this : that men Are as the time is . To be tender - minded Does not become a sword . Thy great employment Will not bear question . Either say thou'lt do ' t , Or thrive by other means .
I will talk further with you .
I think he will carry this island home in his pocket and give it his son for an apple .
Caesar 's sister is called Octavia .
" Sword " is an oath , and oaths must have their course .
Why , so he doth , when he delivers you From this earth 's thralldom to the joys of heaven .
We thank your Honor .
This Caesar was a tyrant .
Will you stay no longer , nor will you not that I go with you ?
Antony Is come into the field .
" De chin . "
All men 's faces are true , whatsome'er their hands are .
Hang it !
Good cheer , Antonio ! What , man , courage yet ! The Jew shall have my flesh , blood , bones and all , Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood .
Ay , marry , now unmuzzle your wisdom .
Am I so round with you as you with me , That like a football you do spurn me thus ? You spurn me hence , and he will spurn me hither . If I last in this service , you must case me in leather .
He 'll make your Paris Louvre shake for it , Were it the mistress court of mighty Europe . And be assured you 'll find a difference , As we his subjects have in wonder found , Between the promise of his greener days And these he masters now . Now he weighs time Even to the utmost grain . That you shall read In your own losses , if he stay in France .
Is there any way to show such friendship ?
Why , that 's all one .
I will not hurt him . These hands do lack nobility that they strike A meaner than myself , since I myself Have given myself the cause .
O , then unfold the passion of my love , Surprise her with discourse of my dear faith : It shall become thee well to act my woes ; She will attend it better in thy youth Than in a nuncio 's of more grave aspect .
With all my heart . This fellow I remember Since once he played a farmer 's eldest son . ' Twas where you wooed the gentlewoman so well . I have forgot your name , but sure that part Was aptly fitted and naturally performed .
' Twas a sweet marriage , and we prosper well in our return .
Why , good sir ?
Tybalt here slain , whom Romeo 's hand did slay . Romeo , that spoke him fair , bade him bethink How nice the quarrel was and urged withal Your high displeasure . All this uttered With gentle breath , calm look , knees humbly bowed , Could not take truce with the unruly spleen Of Tybalt deaf to peace , but that he tilts With piercing steel at bold Mercutio 's breast , Who , all as hot , turns deadly point to point , And , with a martial scorn , with one hand beats Cold death aside and with the other sends It back to Tybalt , whose dexterity , Retorts it . Romeo , he cries aloud , " Hold , friends ! Friends , part ! " and , swifter than his tongue , His agile arm beats down their fatal points , And ' twixt them rushes -- underneath whose arm An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life Of stout Mercutio , and then Tybalt fled .
Are you ready , sir ?
O , let me not be mad , not mad , sweet heaven ! I would not be mad . Keep me in temper . I would not be mad .
Peace , I have done . God mark thee to his grace ! Thou wast the prettiest babe that e' er I nursed . An I might live to see thee married once , I have my wish .
Not altogether so , sir . I looked not for you yet , nor am provided For your fit welcome . Give ear , sir , to my sister . For those that mingle reason with your passion Must be content to think you old , and so -- But she knows what she does .
I am pale , Charmian .
I grant him bloody , Luxurious , avaricious , false , deceitful , Sudden , malicious , smacking of every sin That has a name . But there 's no bottom , none , In my voluptuousness . Your wives , your daughters , Your matrons , and your maids could not fill up The cistern of my lust , and my desire All continent impediments would o'erbear That did oppose my will . Better Macbeth Than such an one to reign .
Have you sent to Bottom 's house ? Is he come home yet ?
Where stood Belgia , the Netherlands ?
That every " like " is not the same , O Caesar , The heart of Brutus earns to think upon .
All hell shall stir for this .
Dost thou know the difference , my boy , between a bitter fool and a sweet fool ?
So many journeys may the sun and moon Make us again count o'er ere love be done . But woe is me ! You are so sick of late , So far from cheer and from your former state , That I distrust you . Yet though I distrust , Discomfort you , my lord , it nothing must . For women fear too much , even as they love , And women 's fear and love hold quantity , In neither aught , or in extremity . Now what my love is , proof hath made you know , And as my love is sized , my fear is so : Where love is great , the littlest doubts are fear . Where little fears grow great , great love grows there .
Alas , sir , it is worse for me than so , For I have bills for money by exchange From Florence , and must here deliver them .
Quiet thy cudgel . Thou dost see I eat .
How now ? Two of my brother 's men bound ! Borachio one !
mutinies , in countries discord , in palaces treason , and the bond cracked ' twixt son and father . This villain of mine comes under the prediction -- there 's son against father . The king falls from bias of nature -- there 's father against child . We have seen the best of our time . Machinations , hollowness , treachery , and all ruinous disorders follow us disquietly to our graves . Find out this villain , Edmund . It shall lose thee nothing . Do it carefully . --And the noble and true - hearted Kent banished , his offense honesty ! ' Tis strange , strange .
I saw him hold Lord Percy at the point With lustier maintenance than I did look for Of such an ungrown warrior .
Decius , go tell them Caesar will not come .
My lord , I was born about three of the clock in the afternoon , with a white head and something a round belly . For my voice , I have lost it with halloing and singing of anthems . To approve my youth further , I will not . The truth is , I am only old in judgment and understanding . And he that will caper with me for a thousand marks , let him lend me the money , and have at him ! For the box of the ear that the Prince gave you , he gave it like a rude prince , and you took it like a sensible lord . I have checked him for it , and the young lion repents . Marry , not in ashes and sackcloth , but in new silk and old sack .
You were to blame , I must be plain with you , To part so slightly with your wife 's first gift , A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger And so riveted with faith unto your flesh .
O , do not swear , my lord of Buckingham !
Nay , by my faith , I think you are more beholding to the night than to fern seed for your walking invisible .
Why , how now ? Do you speak in the sick tune ?
Ay , my good lord . Our time does call upon ' s .
For use almost can change the stamp of nature , And either rein the devil or throw him out With wondrous potency . Once more , good night , And when you are desirous to be blessed , I 'll blessing beg of you . For this same lord , I do repent . But heaven hath pleased it so , To punish me with this and this with me , That I must be their scourge and minister . I will bestow him and will answer well The death I gave him . So , again , good night . I must be cruel only to be kind . Thus bad begins and worse remains behind . One word more , good lady --
Here .
Ay , but the feet were lame and could not bear themselves without the verse , and therefore stood lamely in the verse .
Tush , I will stir about , And all things shall be well , I warrant thee , wife . Go thou to Juliet , help to deck up her . I 'll not to bed tonight . Let me alone . I 'll play the housewife for this once .
I do attend here on the general And think it no addition , nor my wish , To have him see me womaned .
How now , what news ?
Let not your ears despise my tongue forever , Which shall possess them with the heaviest sound That ever yet they heard .
There is no measure in the occasion that breeds . Therefore the sadness is without limit .
No , my profound heart . And yet , by the very fangs of malice I swear , I am not that I play . Are you the lady of the house ?
She is importunate , Indeed distract . Her mood will needs be pitied .
The king hath happily received , Macbeth , The news of thy success , and when he reads Thy personal venture in the rebels ' fight , His wonders and his praises do contend Which should be thine or his . Silenced with that , In viewing o'er the rest o ' the selfsame day , He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks , Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make , Strange images of death . As thick as tale Can post with post , and every one did bear Thy praises in his kingdom 's great defense , And poured them down before him .
Soundly , my lord .
That which is now a horse , even with a thought The rack dislimns and makes it indistinct As water is in water .
Prick him down , Antony .
Face not me . Thou hast braved many men ; brave not me . I will neither be faced nor braved . I say unto thee , I bid thy master cutout the gown , but I did not bid him cut it to pieces . Ergo , thou liest .
Doth not Brutus bootless kneel ?
The little dogs and all , Tray , Blanch , and Sweetheart -- see , they bark at me .
Ay , and twenty such .
Why then I think Cassio 's an honest man .
Talk with a man out at a window ! A proper saying !
The poison of that lies in you to temper . Go you to the Prince your brother . Spare not to tell him that he hath wronged his honor in marrying the renowned Claudio , whose estimation do you mightily hold up , to a contaminated stale , such a one as Hero .
The moon shines fair . You may away by night . I 'll haste the writer , and withal Break with your wives of your departure hence . I am afraid my daughter will run mad , So much she doteth on her Mortimer .
Thus I do escape the sorrow Of Antony 's death .
Villain , not for thy life ! Take up my mistress ' gown for thy master 's use !
I think he 's gone to hunt , my lord , at Windsor .
Katherine , I charge thee , tell these headstrong women What duty they do owe their lords and husbands .
Hear you , sir ?
Peter Quince - -
The queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play .
Excellently done , if God did all .
Belong you to the Lady Olivia , friends ?
Good madam , be not angry with the child .
and pat on 's cue he comes like the catastrophe of the old comedy . My cue is villainous melancholy , with a sigh like Tom o ' Bedlam . Oh , these eclipses do portend these divisions ! Fa , sol , la , mi .
Proceed , Moon .
Tempt him not so too far . I wish , forbear . In time we hate that which we often fear .
The tears have got small victory by that , For it was bad enough before their spite .
At land indeed Thou dost o'ercount me of my father 's house , But since the cuckoo builds not for himself , Remain in ' t as thou mayst .
No question .
Safer than trust too far . Let me still take away the harms I fear , Not fear still to be taken . I know his heart . What he hath uttered I have writ my sister . If she sustain him and his hundred knights When I have showed th ' unfitness --
You touched my vein at first . The thorny point Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the show Of smooth civility , yet am I inland bred And know some nurture . But forbear , I say . He dies that touches any of this fruit Till I and my affairs are answered .
Oh yes , my lord . He wore his beaver up .
He will come straight . Look you lay home to him . Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with , And that your grace hath screened and stood between Much heat and him . I 'll silence me even here . Pray you , be round with him .
Bear him away . What is thy name , young man ?
We learn no other but the confident tyrant Keeps still in Dunsinane and will endure Our setting down before ' t .
I am gone , sir , And anon , sir , I 'll be with you again , In a trice , Like to the old Vice , Your need to sustain , Who , with dagger of lath In his rage and his wrath , Cries " Aha , " to the devil , Like a mad lad , " Pare thy nails , dad , Adieu , goodman devil . "
So please your majesty That we may wake the king ? He hath slept long .
False - boding woman , end thy frantic curse , Lest to thy harm thou move our patience .
A challenge , on my life .
One face , one voice , one habit , and two persons ! A natural perspective , that is and is not !
We still have known thee for a holy man . -- Where 's Romeo 's man ? What can he say in this ?
Well - conceited , Davy . About thy business , Davy .
Give ground , if you see him furious .
And I for no woman .
I will ask him for my place again , he shall tell me I am a drunkard . Had I as many mouths as Hydra , such an answer would stop them all . To be now a sensible man , by and by a fool , and presently a beast ! Oh , strange ! Every inordinate cup is unblessed and the ingredient is a devil .
Yes , madam , he was of that consort .
Why , how now , Dromio . Where runn 'st thou so fast ?
What is love ? ' Tis not hereafter . Present mirth hath present laughter . What 's to come is still unsure . In delay there lies no plenty . Then come kiss me , sweet and twenty . Youth 's a stuff will not endure .
Marry , sir , to get a husband for her sister .
What wind blew you hither , Pistol ?
' Tis so . They are afoot .
Look , where he stands and glares ! --Want 'st thou eyes at trial , madam ? Come o'er the bourn , Bessy , to me --
Head and butt ! An hasty - witted body Would say your head and butt were head and horn .
What ceremony else ?
As little joy enjoys the queen thereof , For I am she , and altogether joyless . I can no longer hold me patient .
Go to , well .
Why the King of France is so suddenly gone back know you the reason ?
Not so , my liege , this lodging likes me better , Since I may say , " Now lie I like a king . "
Wherefore weep you ?
I 'll rather kill myself .
Worthily spoken , Maecenas .
You shall have wine enough , my lord , anon .
Well , we shall sift him . --Welcome , my good friends ! Say , Voltemand , what from our brother Norway ?
Ay , boy .
Come , Hamlet , come , and take this hand from me .
I am more serious than my custom . You Must be so too if heed me , which to do Trebles thee o'er .
I may , and will , if she be so contented . She will be pleased . Then wherefore should I doubt ? Hap what hap may , I 'll roundly go about her . It shall go hard if " Cambio " go without her .
Twenty crowns .
I would not be thy executioner . I fly thee , for I would not injure thee . Thou tell 'st me there is murder in mine eye . ' Tis pretty , sure , and very probable That eyes , that are the frail 'st and softest things , Who shut their coward gates on atomies , Should be called tyrants , butchers , murderers . Now I do frown on thee with all my heart , And if mine eyes can wound , now let them kill thee . Now counterfeit to swoon , why , now fall down ; Or if thou canst not , Oh , for shame , for shame , Lie not , to say mine eyes are murderers . Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee . Scratch thee but with a pin , and there remains Some scar of it . Lean upon a rush , The cicatrice and capable impressure Thy palm some moment keeps . But now mine eyes , Which I have darted at thee , hurt thee not . Nor , I am sure , there is no force in eyes That can do hurt .
All torment , trouble , wonder , and amazement Inhabits here . Some heavenly power guide us Out of this fearful country !
Come , let 's all take hands Till that the conquering wine hath steeped our sense In soft and delicate Lethe .
Wash your hands . Put on your nightgown . Look not so pale . --I tell you yet again , Banquo 's buried ; he cannot come out on 's grave .
That 's a fault . That handkerchief Did an Egyptian to my mother give , She was a charmer and could almost read
And he that hath commanded is our king .
O good Sir Toby , hold ! Here come the officers .
Disparage not the faith thou dost not know , Lest to thy peril thou aby it dear . Look , where thy love comes . Yonder is thy dear .
Yes , the fashion is the fashion .
And mine , but it grows something stale with me .
Not I , believe me . You have dancing shoes With nimble soles . I have a soul of lead So stakes me to the ground I cannot move .
Noble Ventidius , Whilst yet with Parthian blood thy sword is warm , The fugitive Parthians follow . Spur through Media , Mesopotamia , and the shelters whither The routed fly . So thy grand captain , Antony , Shall set thee on triumphant chariots and Put garlands on thy head .
" To the unknown beloved , this , and my good wishes " --Her very phrases ! By your leave , wax . Soft ! And the impressure her Lucrece , with which she uses to seal . ' Tis my lady . To whom should this be ?
And I am your Rosalind .
Nay , an there were two such , we should have none shortly , for one would kill the other . Thou , why , thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast . Thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts , having no other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes . What eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel ? Thy head is as full of quarrels as an egg is full of meat , and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as an egg for quarreling . Thou hast quarreled with a man for coughing in the street because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun . Didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing his new doublet before Easter ? With another , for tying his new shoes with old ribbon ? And yet thou wilt tutor me from quarreling !
Shall I strike at it with my partisan ?
God save the king .
Not her that chides , sir , at any hand , I pray .
Too well , too well .
You take from me a great part of myself ; Use me well in ' t . --Sister , prove such a wife As my thoughts make thee , and as my farthest bond Shall pass on thy approof . --Most noble Antony , Let not the piece of virtue , which is set Betwixt us as the cement of our love , To keep it builded , be the ram to batter The fortress of it . For better might we Have loved without this mean , if on both parts This be not cherished .
I did ; with his contract with Lady Lucy And his contract by deputy in France ; Th ' unsatiate greediness of his desire And his enforcement of the city wives ; His tyranny for trifles ; his own bastardy , As being got , your father then in France , His resemblance being not like the duke . Withal , I did infer your lineaments , Being the right idea of your father , Both in your form and nobleness of mind ; Laid open all your victories in Scotland , Your discipline in war , wisdom in peace , Your bounty , virtue , fair humility ; Indeed , left nothing fitting for your purpose Untouched or slightly handled in discourse . And when mine oratory grew toward end , I bid them that did love their country 's good Cry " God save Richard , England 's royal king ! "
Welcome , you ! --How now , you?- -What , you ! --Fellow , you ! --And thus much for greeting . Now , my spruce companions , is all ready , and all things neat ?
An ' t please your Lordship , I hear his Majesty is returned with some discomfort from Wales .
Fulvia is dead .
By whose direction found 'st thou out this place ?
O momentary grace of mortal men , Which we more hunt for than the grace of God ! Who builds his hopes in air of your good looks Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast , Ready with every nod to tumble down Into the fatal bowels of the deep .
I cannot think it . Hark , what noise is this ?
Here comes your father . Never make denial . I must and will have Katherine to my wife .
Away , Tybalt .
And what said he ?
At Crosby Place , there shall you find us both .
What sayst thou to me now ? Speak once again .
My fate cries out And makes each petty artery in this body As hardy as the Nemean lion 's nerve . Still am I called . --Unhand me , gentlemen . By heaven , I 'll make a ghost of him that lets me . I say , away ! --Go on . I 'll follow thee .
To prison , till fit time Of law and course of direct session Call thee to answer .
You are too hot .
Antonio 's dead ! If thou say so , villain , Thou kill 'st thy mistress . But well and free , If thou so yield him , there is gold , and here My bluest veins to kiss -- a hand that kings Have lipped , and trembled kissing .
My cousin means Signor Benedick of Padua .
Good Boatswain , have care . Where 's the Master ? Play the men .
By Janus , I think no .
He says they can do nothing in this kind .
As ever you come of women , come in quickly to Sir John . Ah , poor heart , he is so shaked of a burning quotidian tertian that it is most lamentable to behold . Sweet men , come to him .
I think thou art in mind , and so am I.
It may not be .
' Tis his main hope : For , where there is advantage to be given , Both more and less have given him the revolt , And none serve with him but constrained things Whose hearts are absent too .
Dispatch us with all speed , lest that our king Come here himself to question our delay , For he is footed in this land already .
Gentlemen , that I may soon make good What I have said --Bianca , get you in , And let it not displease thee , good Bianca , For I will love thee ne'er the less , my girl .
Why , at her father 's .
Ay .
No matter , sir , what I have heard or known . You laugh when boys or women tell their dreams . Is ' t not your trick ?
This house is little . The old man and his people Cannot be well bestowed .
Nay , if you be an undertaker , I am for you .
O thou side - piercing sight !
Sir , in my heart there was a kind of fighting That would not let me sleep . Methought I lay Worse than the mutines in the bilboes . Rashly -- And praised be rashness for it : let us know Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well When our deep plots do pall , and that should teach us There 's a divinity that shapes our ends , Rough - hew them how we will --
Some that will evermore peep through their eyes And laugh like parrots at a bagpiper , And other of such vinegar aspect That they 'll not show their teeth in way of smile Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable .
Such mortal drugs I have , but Mantua 's law Is death to any he that utters them .
I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so . Our house is hell , and thou , a merry devil , Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness . But fare thee well , there is a ducat for thee . And Launcelot , soon at supper shalt thou see Lorenzo , who is thy new master 's guest . Give him this letter . Do it secretly . And so farewell . I would not have my father See me in talk with thee .
Ay , what of that ?
If this be so , why blame you me to love you ?
They shall , Nerissa , but in such a habit That they shall think we are accomplished With that we lack . I 'll hold thee any wager , When we are both accoutred like young men , I 'll prove the prettier fellow of the two , And wear my dagger with the braver grace , And speak between the change of man and boy With a reed voice , and turn two mincing steps Into a manly stride , and speak of frays Like a fine bragging youth , and tell quaint lies , How honorable ladies sought my love , Which I denying , they fell sick and died -- I could not do withal ! --Then I 'll repent And wish for all that , that I had not killed them . And twenty of these puny lies I 'll tell , That men shall swear I have discontinued school Above a twelvemonth . I have within my mind A thousand raw tricks of these bragging jacks Which I will practice .
My lord , his throat is cut . That I did for him .
What think you of the Scottish lord , his neighbor ?
How , how , how , how ? Chopped logic ! What is this ? " Proud , " and " I thank you , " and " I thank you not , " And yet " not proud " ? Mistress minion you , Thank me no thankings , nor proud me no prouds , But fettle your fine joints ' gainst Thursday next To go with Paris to Saint Peter 's Church , Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither . Out , you green sickness , carrion ! Out , you baggage ! You tallow face !
My heart is thirsty for that noble pledge . Fill , Lucius , till the wine o'erswell the cup . I cannot drink too much of Brutus ' love .
Which he will put on us as pigeons feed their young .
So perhaps did yours .
Not a jot more , my lord .
Royal Queen !
Yes , truly , for look you , the sins of the father are to be laid upon the children . Therefore I promise ye I fear you . I was always plain with you , and so now I speak my agitation of the matter . Therefore be o ' good cheer , for truly I think you are damned . There is but one hope in it that can do you any good , and that is but a kind of bastard hope neither .
Give me your hand . Have you no more to say ?
It is , my lord .
In your bad strokes , Brutus , you give good words . Witness the hole you made in Caesar 's heart , Crying " Long live , hail , Caesar ! "
I must to England , you know that ?
What , ho ! My lord , my lord !
The gods best know --
If every of your wishes had a womb , And fertile every wish , a million .
You pulled me by the cloak . Would you speak with me ?
Which is he that killed the deer ?
Her chariot is an empty hazelnut Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub , Time out o ' mind the fairies ' coachmakers . And in this state she gallops night by night Through lovers ' brains , and then they dream of love ; On courtiers ' knees , that dream on curtsies straight ; O ' er lawyers ' fingers , who straight dream on fees ; O ' er ladies ' lips , who straight on kisses dream , Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues , Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are . Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier 's nose , And then dreams he of smelling out a suit . And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig 's tail Tickling a parson 's nose as he lies asleep , Then he dreams of another benefice . Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier 's neck , And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats , Of breaches , ambuscadoes , Spanish blades , Of healths five fathom deep , and then anon Drums in his ear , at which he starts and wakes , And being thus frighted swears a prayer or two And sleeps again . This is that very Mab That plaits the manes of horses in the night And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs , Which once untangled , much misfortune bodes . This is the hag , when maids lie on their backs , That presses them and learns them first to bear , Making them women of good carriage . This is she --
What a wretched and peevish fellow is this king of England to mope with his fat - brained followers so far out of his knowledge .
It gives a very echo to the seat Where Love is throned .
How canst thou try them so ?
Fare thee well , nymph . Ere he do leave this grove , Thou shalt fly him and he shall seek thy love .
He is walked up to the top of the hill . I 'll go seek him .
Stand close awhile , for here comes one in haste .
But how hath she received his love ?
Dead ?
Yonder , sir , he walks .
If it be thus to dream , still let me sleep !
By day and night he wrongs me . Every hour He flashes into one gross crime or other That sets us all at odds . I 'll not endure it . His knights grow riotous , and himself upbraids us On every trifle . When he returns from hunting , I will not speak with him . Say I am sick . If you come slack of former services , You shall do well . The fault of it I 'll answer .
Ay , ay , three thousand ducats .
My fan , Peter .
A king of shreds and patches --
Did not her kitchen maid rail , taunt , and scorn me ?
As kill a king ?
O monstrous , monstrous ! And so falls it out With Rivers , Vaughan , Grey ; and so ' twill do With some men else that think themselves as safe As thou and I , who , as thou know'st , are dear To princely Richard and to Buckingham .
By this light , a most perfidious and drunken monster . When 's god 's asleep , he 'll rob his bottle .
And thus she means , videlicet --
Yonder sure they are coming . Let us now stay and see it .
My people do already know my mind And will acknowledge you and Jessica In place of Lord Bassanio and myself . So fare you well till we shall meet again .
This bottle makes an angel .
Ay , ay , the cords .
With bills on their necks : " Be it known unto all men by these presents . "
My liege .
With courtesy and with respect enough . But not with such familiar instances Nor with such free and friendly conference As he hath used of old .
And liegemen to the Dane .
Do me right , And dub me knight , Samingo . Is ' t not so ?
Well , come what will , I 'll tarry at home .
Sir John stands to his word . The devil shall have his bargain , for he was never yet a breaker of proverbs . He will give the devil his due .
He was ; I heard the proclamation . And then it was when the unhappy King -- Whose wrongs in us God pardon ! --did set forth Upon his Irish expedition ; From whence he , intercepted , did return To be deposed and shortly murdered .
It ripens towards it . Strike the vessels , ho ! Here 's to Caesar .
Oh , quietness , lady !
Well , sir .
Now will I stir this gamester . I hope I shall see an end of him , for my soul -- yet I know not why -- hates nothing more than he . Yet he 's gentle , never schooled and yet learned , full of noble device , of all sorts enchantingly beloved , and indeed so much in the heart of the world and especially of my own people , who best know him , that I am altogether misprized . But it shall not be so long ; this wrestler shall clear all . Nothing remains but that I kindle the boy thither , which now I 'll go about .
Fie , for shame !
Gentlemen , God save you . If I may be bold , Tell me , I beseech you , which is the readiest way To the house of Signior Baptista Minola ?
I do profess to be no less than I seem -- to serve him truly that will put me in trust , to love him that is honest , to converse with him that is wise and says little , to fear judgment , to fight when I cannot choose , and to eat no fish .
I knew you must be edified by the margin ere you had done .
Why , madam , have I offered love for this , To be so flouted in this royal presence ? Who knows not that the gentle duke is dead ?
God bless thee , lady !
Not yet .
Dead , sir .
I have here a dish of doves that I would bestow upon your worship , and my suit is --
Then she bears some breadth ?
That methinks is strange .
Sir John .
God bless the prince from all the pack of you ! A knot you are of damned bloodsuckers .
Holla , holla ! That eye that told you so looked but asquint .
And pour our treasures into foreign laps , Or else break out in peevish jealousies , Throwing restraint upon us . Or say they strike us , Or scant our former having in despite . Why , we have galls , and though we have some grace , Yet have we some revenge . Let husbands know Their wives have sense like them . They see and smell And have their palates both for sweet and sour , As husbands have . What is it that they do When they change us for others ? Is it sport ? I think it is . And doth affection breed it ? I think it doth . Is ' t frailty that thus errs ? It is so too . And have not we affections , Desires for sport , and frailty , as men have ? Then let them use us well , else let them know , The ills we do , their ills instruct us so .
Upon the stroke of ten .
I did not see you since you sent me hence , Home to the Centaur with the gold you gave me .
Off , coxcomb !
Come , stir , stir , stir ! The second cock hath crowed . The curfew bell hath rung . ' Tis three o'clock . -- Look to the baked meats , good Angelica . Spare not for the cost .
Call them forth .
I doubt not but his friends will turn to us .
I am not bound to please thee with my answers .
Upon my life , Lamond !
Without his roe , like a dried herring . O flesh , flesh , how art thou fishified ! Now is he for the numbers that Petrarch flowed in . Laura to his lady was but a kitchen - wench -- marry , she had a better love to berhyme her --Dido a dowdy , Cleopatra a gypsy , Helen and Hero hildings and harlots , Thisbe a grey eye or so , but not to the purpose . -- Signior Romeo , bonjour ! There 's a French salutation to your French slop . You gave us the counterfeit fairly last night .
Alack , why thus ?
Who 's there ? What , ho !
What 's Antony ? The god of Jupiter .
She doth well . If she should make tender of her love , ' tis very possible he 'll scorn it , for the man , as you know all , hath a contemptible spirit .
Instruct us , boy . What dream , boy ?
O upright judge ! --Mark , Jew . --O learned judge !
But , by your leave , it never yet did hurt To lay down likelihoods and forms of hope .
In him there is a hope of government , Which , in his nonage , council under him , And , in his full and ripened years , himself , No doubt shall then , and till then , govern well .
So please you , we will stand and watch your pleasure .
Content thee , gentle coz . Let him alone . He bears him like a portly gentleman , And , to say truth , Verona brags of him To be a virtuous and well-governed youth . I would not for the wealth of all the town Here in my house do him disparagement . Therefore be patient . Take no note of him . It is my will , the which if thou respect , Show a fair presence and put off these frowns , An ill - beseeming semblance for a feast .
Look how he makes to Caesar . Mark him .
I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon . His father was called Philip of Macedon , as I take it .
" De nails . " Ecoutez . Dites - moi si je parle bien : " de hand , de fingres , et de nails . "
I come , Graymalkin !
Will he tell us what this show meant ?
And Robin Hood , Scarlet , and John .
The taming school ? What , is there such a place ?
Oh , fie upon thee , slanderer !
Saw you the weird sisters ?
Let her know ' t . -- To the boy Caesar send this grizzled head , And he will fill thy wishes to the brim With principalities .
Now , my co - mates and brothers in exile , Hath not old custom made this life more sweet Than that of painted pomp ? Are not these woods More free from peril than the envious court ? Here feel we not the penalty of Adam , The seasons ' difference , as the icy fang And churlish chiding of the winter 's wind , Which , when it bites and blows upon my body , Even till I shrink with cold , I smile and say , " This is no flattery . These are counselors That feelingly persuade me what I am . " Sweet are the uses of adversity , Which , like the toad , ugly and venomous , Wears yet a precious jewel in his head . And this our life , exempt from public haunt , Finds tongues in trees , books in the running brooks , Sermons in stones , and good in everything .
First , of my word ! Therefore play , music . --Prince , thou art sad . Get thee a wife , get thee a wife . There is no staff more reverend than one tipped with horn .
I am sorry that I am deceived in him .
" Madam , " and nothing else . So lords call ladies .
Oh , what a noble mind is here o'erthrown ! -- The courtier 's , soldier 's , scholar 's , eye , tongue , sword , Th ' expectancy and rose of the fair state , The glass of fashion and the mould of form , Th ' observed of all observers , quite , quite down ! And I , of ladies most deject and wretched , That sucked the honey of his music vows , Now see that noble and most sovereign reason Like sweet bells jangled , out of tune and harsh ; That unmatched form and feature of blown youth Blasted with ecstasy . Oh , woe is me , T ' have seen what I have seen , see what I see !
I shall , King Harry . And so fare thee well . Thou never shalt hear herald anymore .
Being unprepared , Our will became the servant to defect , Which else should free have wrought .
I have the toothache .
No , Caesar hath it not . But you and I And honest Casca , we have the falling sickness .
Call all his noble captains to my lord .
Why should I , mother ? Poor birds they are not set for . My father is not dead , for all your saying .
My father 's spirit in arms . All is not well . I doubt some foul play . Would the night were come ! Till then sit still , my soul . Foul deeds will rise , Though all the earth o'erwhelm them , to men 's eyes .
You are three men of sin , whom Destiny , That hath to instrument this lower world And what is in ' t , the never - surfeited sea Hath caused to belch up you -- and on this island Where man doth not inhabit , you 'mongst men Being most unfit to live . I have made you mad , And even with suchlike valor men hang and drown Their proper selves . You fools , I and my fellows Are ministers of fate . The elements Of whom your swords are tempered may as well Wound the loud winds or with bemocked - at stabs Kill the still - closing waters as diminish One dowl that 's in my plume . My fellow ministers Are like invulnerable . If you could hurt , Your swords are now too massy for your strengths And will not be uplifted . But remember -- For that 's my business to you -- that you three From Milan did supplant good Prospero , Exposed unto the sea , which hath requit it , Him and his innocent child . For which foul deed The powers --delaying , not forgetting -- have Incensed the seas and shores , yea , all the creatures , Against your peace . --Thee of thy son , Alonso , They have bereft , and do pronounce by me Lingering perdition , worse than any death Can be at once , shall step by step attend You and your ways ; whose wraths to guard you from -- Which here , in this most desolate isle , else falls Upon your heads -- is nothing but hearts ' sorrow And a clear life ensuing .
I must needs tell thee all . She hath directed How I shall take her from her father 's house , What gold and jewels she is furnished with , What page 's suit she hath in readiness . If e' er the Jew her father come to heaven , It will be for his gentle daughter 's sake . And never dare Misfortune cross her foot Unless she do it under this excuse : That she is issue to a faithless Jew . Come , go with me . Peruse this as thou goest . Fair Jessica shall be my torchbearer .
How old art thou , Francis ?
According to the fool 's bolt , sir , and such dulcet diseases .
Friar , it cannot be . Thou seest that all the grace that she hath left Is that she will not add to her damnation A sin of perjury . She not denies it . Why seek 'st thou then to cover with excuse That which appears in proper nakedness ?
In my rights , By me invested , he compeers the best .
I crave your highness ' pardon .
No ? Why , ' tis a plain case : he that went , like a bass viol in a case of leather ; the man , sir , that , when gentlemen are tired , gives them a sob and ' rests them ; he , sir , that takes pity on decayed men and gives them suits of durance ; he that sets up his rest to do more exploits with his mace than a morris-pike .
It must not be . There is no power in Venice Can alter a decree established . ' Twill be recorded for a precedent , And many an error by the same example Will rush into the state . It cannot be .
Therefore , good Brutus , be prepared to hear . And since you know you cannot see yourself So well as by reflection , I , your glass , Will modestly discover to yourself That of yourself which you yet know not of . And be not jealous on me , gentle Brutus . Were I a common laugher , or did use To stale with ordinary oaths my love To every new protester , if you know That I do fawn on men and hug them hard And , after , scandal them , or if you know That I profess myself in banqueting To all the rout , then hold me dangerous .
Lend me a garter . So . --Oh , for a chair , To bear him easily hence !
No , not a whit , what . I have watched ere now All night for lesser cause , and ne'er been sick .
Here 's packing , with a witness , to deceive us all !
Very well .
All that I have to say is to tell you that the lanthorn is the moon ; I , the man in the moon ; this thornbush , my thornbush ; and this dog , my dog .
Put your grace in your pocket , sir , for this once , and let your flesh and blood obey it .
' Tis a very excellent piece of work , madam lady . Would ' twere done .
An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art , any man should buy the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter .
Who comes with him ?
Sweet friends , your patience for my long abode . Not I but my affairs have made you wait . When you shall please to play the thieves for wives , I 'll watch as long for you then . Approach . Here dwells my father Jew . --Ho! Who 's within ?
Musicians , O musicians , " Heart 's Ease , " " Heart 's Ease . " O , an you will have me live , play " Heart 's Ease . "
Sir , his definement suffers no perdition in you , though I know to divide him inventorially would dizzy th ' arithmetic of memory , and yet but yaw neither , in respect of his quick sail .
Justice , most sacred duke , against the Abbess .
I cannot bid you bid my daughter live -- That were impossible -- but , I pray you both , Possess the people in Messina here How innocent she died . And if your love Can labor ought in sad invention , Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb And sing it to her bones . Sing it tonight . Tomorrow morning come you to my house , And since you could not be my son - in - law , Be yet my nephew . My brother hath a daughter , Almost the copy of my child that 's dead , And she alone is heir to both of us . Give her the right you should have given her cousin , And so dies my revenge .
Come , you and I will thither presently . And in the morning early will we both Fly toward Belmont . Come , Antonio .
" Fly pride , " says the peacock . Mistress , that you know .
' Twill be two o'clock ere they come from the coronation . Dispatch , dispatch .
And so we will , provided that he win her .
Ay , that left pap Where heart doth hop . Thus die I , thus , thus , thus . Now am I dead . Now am I fled . My soul is in the sky . Tongue , lose thy light . Moon , take thy flight .
O you mighty gods , This world I do renounce , and in your sights Shake patiently my great affliction off . If I could bear it longer and not fall To quarrel with your great opposeless wills , My snuff and loathed part of nature should Burn itself out . If Edgar live , O , bless him ! -- Now , fellow , fare thee well .
Stand aside . The noise they make Will cause Demetrius to awake .
Then pleaded I for you .
The King will bid you battle presently .
Why is Time such a niggard of hair , being , as it is , so plentiful an excrement ?
The time of universal peace is near . Prove this a prosp'rous day , the three - nooked world Shall bear the olive freely .
When ?
You see how easily she may be surprised . Guard her till Caesar come .
She that is Queen of Tunis ; she that dwells Ten leagues beyond man 's life ; she that from Naples Can have no note , unless the sun were post -- The man i ' th ' moon 's too slow -- till newborn chins Be rough and razorable ; she that from whom We all were sea - swallowed , though some cast again , And by that destiny to perform an act Whereof what 's past is prologue , what to come In yours and my discharge .
Brutus is wise , and were he not in health , He would embrace the means to come by it .
Good my Lord of Lancaster , I am not here against your father 's peace , But , as I told my Lord of Westmoreland , The time misordered doth , in common sense , Crowd us and crush us to this monstrous form To hold our safety up . I sent your Grace The parcels and particulars of our grief , The which hath been with scorn shoved from the court , Whereon this Hydra son of war is born , Whose dangerous eyes may well be charmed asleep With grant of our most just and right desires , And true obedience , of this madness cured , Stoop tamely to the foot of majesty .
Leave me , friends .
God send the companion a better prince . I cannot rid my hands of him .
Then say they were not slain . But dead they are , and devilish slave , by thee .
Let me say " Amen " betimes , lest the devil cross my prayer , for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew .
Good my lord , bid him welcome . This is the motley - minded gentleman that I have so often met in the forest . He hath been a courtier , he swears .
And your reports have set the murder on .
Forever and forever farewell , Brutus . If we do meet again , we 'll smile indeed . If not , ' tis true this parting was well made .
It is certain , corporal , that he is married to Nell Quickly , and certainly she did you wrong , for you were troth - plight to her .
What are you there ? Your names ?
Two , two -- a shirt and a smock .
Not mine , in good sooth .
Here is a place reserved , sir .
Weeping and wailing over Tybalt 's corse . Will you go to them ? I will bring you thither .
He knows that you embrace not Antony As you did love , but as you feared him .
Accursed be that tongue that tells me so , For it hath cowed my better part of man ! And be these juggling fiends no more believed , That palter with us in a double sense , That keep the word of promise to our ear , And break it to our hope . I 'll not fight with thee .
Swear by her foot , that she may tread out the oath .
No , thy words are too precious to be cast away upon curs . Throw some of them at me . Come , lame me with reasons .
Nay , answer me . Stand and unfold yourself .
Call 'em . Let me see ' em .
My arm is sore . Best play with Mardian .
Go , go , up to the leads . The Lord Mayor knocks .
God keep me from false friends , but they were none .
If I serve not him , I will run as far as God has any ground . --O rare fortune ! Here comes the man . --To him , Father , for I am a Jew if I serve the Jew any longer .
Buzz , buzz .
Grace go with you , sir .
Alas , poor caitiff !
Father , in . I cannot get a service , no . I have ne'er a tongue in my head . Well , if any man in Italy have a fairer table which doth offer to swear upon a book , I shall have good fortune . Go to , here 's a simple line of life . Here 's a small trifle of wives . Alas , fifteen wives is nothing ! Eleven widows and nine maids is a simple coming - in for one man . And then to 'scape drowning thrice and to be in peril of my life with the edge of a feather - bed -- here are simple ' scapes . Well , if Fortune be a woman , she 's a good wench for this gear . --Father , come . I 'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling .
You have prevailed . I will depart in quiet And , in despite of mirth , mean to be merry . I know a wench of excellent discourse , Pretty and witty , wild and yet , too , gentle . There will we dine . This woman that I mean , My wife -- but , I protest , without desert -- Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal ; To her will we to dinner . Get you home And fetch the chain ; by this I know ' tis made . Bring it , I pray you , to the Porpentine , For there 's the house . That chain will I bestow -- Be it for nothing but to spite my wife -- Upon mine hostess there . Good sir , make haste . Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me , I 'll knock elsewhere , to see if they 'll disdain me .
Cry you mercy , I took you for a joint - stool .
Be quiet , people . Wherefore throng you hither ?
O thou Othello , thou was once so good , Fall'n in the practice of a cursed slave , What shall be said to thee ?
I am invited , sir , to certain merchants , Of whom I hope to make much benefit .
Combine together ' gainst the enemy , For these domestic and particular broils Are not the question here .
Ready . Name what part I am for and proceed .
Ay , I thank God , my father , and yourself .
Pat , pat . And here 's a marvelous convenient place for our rehearsal . This green plot shall be our stage , this hawthorn - brake our tiring - house , and we will do it in action as we will do it before the duke .
Threescore and ten I can remember well , Within the volume of which time I have seen Hours dreadful and things strange , but this sore night Hath trifled former knowings .
Most like a gentleman .
Will you help?- -An ass - head , and a coxcomb , and a knave , a thin-faced knave , a gull !
Hang , you gorbellied knaves ! Are you undone ? No , you fat chuffs . I would your store were here . On , bacons , on ! What , you knaves , young men must live . You are grandjurors , are you ? We 'll jure you , faith .
Well , I will do it , though I take thee in the king 's company .
If I should be ? I had rather be a peddler . Far be it from my heart , the thought thereof .
On Thursday , sir ? The time is very short .
Go to , you 're a dry fool . I 'll no more of you . Besides , you grow dishonest .
That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold . What hath quenched them hath given me fire . Hark ! Peace ! It was the owl that shrieked , the fatal bellman , Which gives the stern 'st good - night . He is about it . The doors are open , and the surfeited grooms Do mock their charge with snores . I have drugged their possets , That death and nature do contend about them , Whether they live or die .
Fair is foul , and foul is fair Hover through the fog and filthy air .
Nay , hear him .
What 's the matter ?
Nor will you not tell me who you are ?
My noble uncle , do you know the cause ?
I hear some noise within . Dear love , adieu . -- Anon , good Nurse ! --Sweet Montague , be true . Stay but a little . I will come again .
Thou art a cobbler , art thou ?
The Hebrew will turn Christian . He grows kind .
Gone , sir . Farewell . And yet I know not how conceit may rob The treasury of life when life itself Yields to the theft . Had he been where he thought , By this had thought been past . Alive or dead?- - Ho you , sir , friend ! Hear you , sir ? Speak . -- Thus might he pass indeed . Yet he revives . -- What are you , sir ?
This , by his voice , should be a Montague . -- Fetch me my rapier , boy . -- What , dares the slave Come hither , covered with an antic face , To fleer and scorn at our solemnity ? Now , by the stock and honor of my kin , To strike him dead I hold it not a sin .
Well begun , Tranio .
Here 's that , I warrant you , will pay them all .
Anon , anon , sir .
Nay , that 's right . But why wear you your leek today ? Saint Davy 's day is past .
If I do so , it will be of more price Being spoke behind your back than to your face .
His grief grew puissant and the strings of life Began to crack . Twice then the trumpets sounded , And there I left him tranced .
How should that be ?
She shall not .
If I myself , there is no hour so fit As Caesar 's death 's hour , nor no instrument Of half that worth as those your swords , made rich With the most noble blood of all this world . I do beseech ye , if you bear me hard , Now , whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke , Fulfill your pleasure . Live a thousand years , I shall not find myself so apt to die . No place will please me so , no mean of death , As here by Caesar , and by you cut off , The choice and master spirits of this age .
The porter for this time , sir , and my name is Dromio .
Misprision in the highest degree ! Lady , Cucullus non facit monachum -- that 's as much to say as I wear not motley in my brain . Good madonna , give me leave to prove you a fool .
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil Free me so far in your most generous thoughts That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house And hurt my brother .
Sirrah , lead these gentlemen To my daughters , and tell them both These are their tutors . Bid them use them well .
You shall , my lord .
Time enough to go to bed with a candle , I warrant thee . Come , neighbour Mugs , we 'll call up the gentlemen . They will along with company , for they have great charge .
No , not till Thursday . There is time enough .
Nay , that follows not .
Bless thee , Bottom , bless thee . Thou art translated .
They were villains , murderers . The will ! Read the will !
If your mind dislike anything , obey it . I will forestall their repair hither and say you are not fit .
Shall I return this answer to the King ?
I did never know so full a voice issue from so empty a heart . But the saying is true : " The empty vessel makes the greatest sound . " Bardolph and Nym had ten times more valor than this roaring devil i ' th ' old play , that everyone may pare his nails with a wooden dagger , and they are both hanged , and so would this be if he durst steal any thing adventurously . I must stay with the lackeys with the luggage of our camp . The French might have a good prey of us if he knew of it , for there is none to guard it but boys .
And you said no .
The more fool , madonna , to mourn for your brother 's soul being in heaven . Take away the fool , gentlemen .
Ready , sir ; but his will hath in it a more modest working .
And that you would have me to do !
Ay , but not frighted me . Therefore I 'll sleep again .
Nothing , my lord .
To mourn a mischief that is past and gone Is the next way to draw new mischief on . What cannot be preserved when fortune takes , Patience her injury a mock'ry makes . The robbed that smiles steals something from the thief , He robs himself that spends a bootless grief .
I can say little more than I have studied , and that question 's out of my part . Good gentle one , give me modest assurance if you be the lady of the house , that I may proceed in my speech .
No.
' Tis the way To call hers exquisite , in question more . These happy masks that kiss fair ladies ' brows , Being black , puts us in mind they hide the fair . He that is strucken blind cannot forget The precious treasure of his eyesight lost . Show me a mistress that is passing fair ; What doth her beauty serve but as a note Where I may read who passed that passing fair ? Farewell . Thou canst not teach me to forget .
What should it be that is so shrieked abroad ?
You say very true , scald knave , when God 's will is . I will desire you to live in the meantime and eat your victuals . Come , there is sauce for it . You called me yesterday " mountain squire , " but I will make you today a squire of low degree . I pray you , fall to . If you can mock a leek , you can eat a leek .
Within this half hour will he be asleep . Wilt thou destroy him then ?
O , then , dear saint , let lips do what hands do . They pray ; grant thou , lest faith turn to despair .
Derives itself to me . Lo , where it sits , Which God shall guard . And put the world 's whole strength Into one giant arm , it shall not force This lineal honor from me . This from thee Will I to mine leave , as ' tis left to me .
Why , how now , Ganymede , sweet Ganymede ?
And this .
We are glad the Dauphin is so pleasant with us . His present and your pains we thank you for . When we have matched our rackets to these balls , We will in France , by God 's grace , play a set Shall strike his father 's crown into the hazard . Tell him he hath made a match with such a wrangler That all the courts of France will be disturbed With chases . And we understand him well , How he comes o'er us with our wilder days , Not measuring what use we made of them .
We are like to prove a goodly commodity , being taken up of these men 's bills .
So says the Prince and my new - trothed lord .
Do you think so ?
This is too long .
The dearest friend to me , the kindest man , The best conditioned and unwearied spirit In doing courtesies , and one in whom The ancient Roman honor more appears Than any that draws breath in Italy .
So may the outward shows be least themselves . The world is still deceived with ornament . In law , what plea so tainted and corrupt But , being seasoned with a gracious voice , Obscures the show of evil ? In religion , What damned error , but some sober brow Will bless it and approve it with a text , Hiding the grossness with fair ornament ? There is no vice so simple but assumes Some mark of virtue on his outward parts . How many cowards whose hearts are all as false As stairs of sand wear yet upon their chins The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars , Who , inward searched , have livers white as milk , And these assume but valor 's excrement To render them redoubted . Look on beauty , And you shall see ' tis purchased by the weight , Which therein works a miracle in nature , Making them lightest that wear most of it . So are those crisped snaky golden locks Which maketh such wanton gambols with the wind , Upon supposed fairness , often known To be the dowry of a second head , The skull that bred them in the sepulcher . Thus ornament is but the guiled shore To a most dangerous sea , the beauteous scarf Veiling an Indian beauty -- in a word , The seeming truth which cunning times put on To entrap the wisest . Therefore then , thou gaudy gold , Hard food for Midas , I will none of thee . Nor none of thee , thou pale and common drudge ' Tween man and man . But thou , thou meagre lead , Which rather threaten 'st than dost promise aught , Thy paleness moves me more than eloquence , And here choose I. Joy be the consequence !
Nay , but to live In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed , Stewed in corruption , honeying and making love Over the nasty sty --
After him I love More than I love these eyes , more than my life , More , by all mores , than e' er I shall love wife . If I do feign , you witnesses above , Punish my life for tainting of my love !
If I do not , never trust me , take it how you will .
Do you quarrel , sir ?
Arm , gentlemen , to arms . For I have thrown A brave defiance in King Henry 's teeth , And Westmoreland , that was engaged , did bear it , Which cannot choose but bring him quickly on .
Ay , madam , it is common .
Nay , good lieutenant ! Alas , gentlemen -- Help , ho ! -- Lieutenant -- sir , Montano -- Help , masters ! --Here 's a goodly watch indeed !
What ?
Ha , what sayst thou , Silvius ?
Good friend , I prithee , take him in thy arms . I have o'erheard a plot of death upon him .
a decreasing leg , an increasing belly ? Is not your voice broken , your wind short , your chin double , your wit single , and every part about you blasted with antiquity ? And will you yet call yourself young ? Fie , fie , fie , Sir John .
No , I am a Welshman .
By God 's liggens , I thank thee . The knave will stick by thee , I can assure thee that . He will not out , he . ' Tis true bred !
Ay , my lord .
Thou hast . Where was she born ? Speak . Tell me .
I 'll bring you to him .
Why ? For taking one 's part that 's out of favor . Nay , an thou canst not smile as the wind sits , thou'lt catch cold shortly . There , take my coxcomb . Why , this fellow has banished two on 's daughters , and did the third a blessing against his will . If thou follow him , thou must needs wear my coxcomb . --How now , nuncle ? Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters .
Not proud you have , but thankful that you have . Proud can I never be of what I hate , But thankful even for hate that is meant love .
I would my horse had the speed of your tongue and so good a continuer . But keep your way , i ' God 's name . I have done .
You may indeed say so , For ' twas that hand that gave away my heart .
I swear I 'll cuff you if you strike again .
And too soon marred are those so early made . Earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she . She 's the hopeful lady of my earth . But woo her , gentle Paris , get her heart . My will to her consent is but a part . An she agreed within her scope of choice , Lies my consent and fair according voice . This night I hold an old accustomed feast , Whereto I have invited many a guest Such as I love . And you among the store , One more , most welcome , makes my number more . At my poor house look to behold this night Earth - treading stars that make dark heaven light .
Your broaches , pearls , and ouches -- for to serve bravely is to come halting off , you know ; to come off the breach with his pike bent bravely , and to surgery bravely , to venture upon the charged chambers bravely --
Happily , amen !
I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body .
You know not Whether it was his wisdom or his fear .
" Be not afraid of greatness . " ' Twas well writ .
Away , you cutpurse rascal , you filthy bung , away ! By this wine , I 'll thrust my knife in your mouldy chaps an you play the saucy cuttle with me . Away , you bottle - ale rascal , you basket - hilt stale juggler , you . Since when , I pray you , sir ? God 's light , with two points on your shoulder ? Much !
O mistress , villainy hath made mocks with love ! My husband say that she was false !
Break not your sleeps for that . You must not think That we are made of stuff so flat and dull That we can let our beard be shook with danger And think it pastime . You shortly shall hear more . I loved your father , and we love ourself . And that , I hope , will teach you to imagine --
Come , go with me . I will go seek the king . This is the very ecstasy of love , Whose violent property fordoes itself And leads the will to desperate undertakings As oft as any passion under heaven That does afflict our natures . I am sorry . What , have you given him any hard words of late ?
Am I not wise ?
Peace ! Let us hear what Antony can say .
Why , then , tomorrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind ?
He will not be commanded . Here 's another More potent than the first .
I doubt it is no other but the main : His father 's death and our o'erhasty marriage .
And I do with an eye of love requite her .
By my troth , my lord , I cannot tell what to think of it , but that she loves him with an enraged affection , it is past the infinite of thought .
Pray thee , fellow , peace . I do not like thy look , I promise thee .
As it were , to ride day and night , and not to deliberate , not to remember , not to have patience to shift me --
Depose me ? If thou dost it half so gravely , so majestically , both in word and matter , hang me up by the heels for a rabbit - sucker or a poulter 's hare .
Thou villain Capulet ! Hold me not . Let me go .
Horn mad , thou villain !
To make an act of tragic violence . Edward , my lord , thy son , our king , is dead . Why grow the branches when the root is gone ? Why wither not the leaves that want their sap ?
Two of them have the very bent of honor , And if their wisdoms be misled in this , The practice of it lives in John the Bastard , Whose spirits toil in frame of villainies .
How should they , when that wise men have no eyes ?
Send out a pursuivant - at - arms To Stanley 's regiment . Bid him bring his power Before sunrising , lest his son George fall Into the blind cave of eternal night .
God gi ' good ev'n , William .
Here is her father 's house , I 'll call aloud .
Fear not my government .
How now , my noble friend ? Since I came hither , Which I can call but now , I have heard strange news .
Let us condole the knight , for , lambkins , we will live .
No , sir , no jot . I know your favor well , Though now you have no sea - cap on your head . -- Take him away . He knows I know him well .
Why , this it is to have a name in great men 's fellowship . I had as lief have a reed that will do me no service as a partisan I could not heave .
No , nor more fearful .
She is too subtle for thee , and her smoothness , Her very silence and her patience Speak to the people , and they pity her . Thou art a fool . She robs thee of thy name , And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous When she is gone . Then open not thy lips . Firm and irrevocable is my doom Which I have passed upon her . She is banished .
Why doth the crown lie there upon his pillow , Being so troublesome a bedfellow ? O polished perturbation , golden care , That keep 'st the ports of slumber open wide To many a watchful night ! sleep with it now ; Yet not so sound and half so deeply sweet As he whose brow with homely biggen bound Snores out the watch of night . O majesty , When thou dost pinch thy bearer , thou dost sit Like a rich armor worn in heat of day , That scald 'st with safety . By his gates of breath There lies a downy feather which stirs not ; Did he suspire , that light and weightless down Perforce must move . My gracious lord , my father , This sleep is sound indeed . This is a sleep That from this golden rigol hath divorced So many English kings . Thy due from me Is tears and heavy sorrows of the blood , Which nature , love , and filial tenderness Shall , O dear father , pay thee plenteously . My due from thee is this imperial crown , Which , as immediate as thy place and blood ,
What satisfaction canst thou have tonight ?
A holy day shall this be kept hereafter . I would to God all strifes were well compounded . My sovereign lord , I do beseech your Highness To take our brother Clarence to your grace .
Returned so soon ? Rather approach 'd too late ! The capon burns ; the pig falls from the spit ; The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell ; My mistress made it one upon my cheek . She is so hot because the meat is cold ; The meat is cold because you come not home ; You come not home because you have no stomach ; You have no stomach , having broke your fast ; But we that know what ' tis to fast and pray Are penitent for your default today .
How now , Kate ? I must leave you within these two hours .
His very hair is of the dissembling color .
Sit , worthy friends . My lord is often thus And hath been from his youth . Pray you , keep seat . The fit is momentary ; upon a thought He will again be well . If much you note him , You shall offend him and extend his passion . Feed and regard him not . Are you a man ?
I gave her such a one , ' twas my first gift .
In such a time as this it is not meet That every nice offense should bear his comment .
Sirrah , give place .
' Tis semper idem , for obsque hoc nihil est ; ' tis all in every part .
Here is a friar , and slaughtered Romeo 's man , With instruments upon them fit to open These dead men 's tombs .
I wear it for a memorable honor , For I am Welsh , you know , good countryman .
Now , fellows , you are welcome .
To the health of our general !
O proper stuff ! This is the very painting of your fear . This is the air - drawn dagger which you said Led you to Duncan . Oh , these flaws and starts , Impostors to true fear , would well become A woman 's story at a winter 's fire , Authorized by her grandam . Shame itself ! Why do you make such faces ? When all' s done , You look but on a stool .
There on the ground , with his own tears made drunk .
The voice of Cassio . Iago keeps his word .
Ay , boy .
Any man that can write may answer a letter .
Barren , barren , barren , beggars all , beggars all , Sir John . Marry , good air . --Spread , Davy , spread , Davy . Well said , Davy .
Notable pirate ! Thou saltwater thief , What foolish boldness brought thee to their mercies , Whom thou , in terms so bloody and so dear , Hast made thine enemies ?
Make room , and let him stand before our face . -- Shylock , the world thinks , and I think so too , That thou but lead 'st this fashion of thy malice To the last hour of act , and then ' tis thought Thou'lt show thy mercy and remorse more strange Than is thy strange apparent cruelty , And where thou now exacts the penalty -- Which is a pound of this poor merchant 's flesh -- Thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture But -- touched with human gentleness and love , -- Forgive a moiety of the principal , Glancing an eye of pity on his losses That have of late so huddled on his back Eno ' to press a royal merchant down And pluck commiseration of his state From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint , From stubborn Turks and Tartars never trained To offices of tender courtesy . We all expect a gentle answer , Jew .
As if that name , Shot from the deadly level of a gun , Did murder her , as that name 's cursed hand Murdered her kinsman . O , tell me , Friar , tell me , In what vile part of this anatomy Doth my name lodge ? Tell me , that I may sack The hateful mansion .
What 's that to thee ?
Suffer love ! A good epithet ! I do suffer love indeed , for I love thee against my will .
The watchdogs bark .
And speak ' t again , my lord . No more with me .
I am here , brother , full of heaviness .
Pray heaven it be State matters , as you think , and no conception Nor no jealous toy concerning you .
Lives , sir .
I have a pain upon my forehead , here .
I pray you , let it stand .
Very gladly .
It will be rain tonight .
Madam , his majesty doth call for you , -- And for your Grace , -- and yours , my gracious lords .
Upon the right hand I. Keep thou the left .
Signior Hortensio , come you to part the fray ? Con tutto il cuore , ben trovato , may I say .
Soft , Caesar .
Ay , sir .
Then put up your pipes in your bag , for I 'll away . Go , vanish into air , away !
Prithee , keep up thy quillets . There 's a poor piece of gold for thee . If the gentlewoman that attends the general 's wife be stirring , tell her there 's one Cassio entreats her a little favour of speech . Wilt thou do this ?
Do so . Farewell both .
Who , I , my lord ?
Good shepherd , tell this youth what ' tis to love .
What , shall I find you here ?
His incivility confirms no less . -- Good Doctor Pinch , you are a conjurer ; Establish him in his true sense again , And I will please you what you will demand .
" Thou comest to the lady Olivia , and in my sight she uses thee kindly . But thou liest in thy throat . That is not the matter I challenge thee for . "
Peace , you rogue , no more o ' that . Here comes my lady . Make your excuse wisely , you were best .
No , I will be the pattern of all patience . I will say nothing .
Hold , worthy lady , hold ! Do not yourself such wrong , who are in this Relieved but not betrayed .
And let Sebastian wake . " Say this were death That now hath seized them . Why , they were no worse Than now they are . There be that can rule Naples As well as he that sleeps , lords that can prate As amply and unnecessarily As this Gonzalo . I myself could make A chough of as deep chat . Oh , that you bore The mind that I do , what a sleep were this For your advancement ! Do you understand me ?
I dreamt tonight that I did feast with Caesar , And things unlucky charge my fantasy . I have no will to wander forth of doors , Yet something leads me forth .
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage , and , for turning away , let summer bear it out .
Something , sure , of state , Either from Venice , or some unhatched practice Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him , Hath puddled his clear spirit , and in such cases Men 's natures wrangle with inferior things , Though great ones are their object . ' Tis even so , For let our finger ache and it endues Our other healthful members even to that sense Of pain . Nay , we must think men are not gods , Nor of them look for such observances As fit the bridal . Beshrew me much , Emilia , I was , unhandsome warrior as I am , Arraigning his unkindness with my soul , But now I find I had suborned the witness , And he 's indicted falsely .
Not possible . For who shall bear your part And be in Padua here Vincentio 's son , Keep house and ply his book , welcome his friends , Visit his countrymen and banquet them ?
There lies your love .
He calls me " boy " and chides as he had power To beat me out of Egypt . My messenger He hath whipped with rods , dares me to personal combat , Caesar to Antony . Let the old ruffian know I have many other ways to die , meantime Laugh at his challenge .
Good sir --
Lend thine ear .
Let him appear .
Nay , you shall see my orchard , where , in an arbor , we will eat a last year 's pippin of my own graffing , with a dish of caraways , and so forth . --Come , cousin Silence . --And then to bed .
I think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage than the love of the parties .
I take thee , Rosalind , for wife .
Antonio , I am married to a wife Which is as dear to me as life itself . But life itself , my wife , and all the world Are not with me esteemed above thy life . I would lose all -- ay , sacrifice them all Here to this devil -- to deliver you .
Ay , I praise God , and I have merited some love at his hands .
All thy tediousness on me , ah ?
Truly to speak , and with no addition , We go to gain a little patch of ground That hath in it no profit but the name . To pay five ducats , five , I would not farm it . Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole A ranker rate , should it be sold in fee .
Answer as I call you . --Nick Bottom , the weaver ?
Even he , madam .
What 's he ?
First , good Peter Quince , say what the play treats on , then read the names of the actors , and so grow to a point .
That Caesar is more dangerous than he . We are two lions littered in one day , And I the elder and more terrible . And Caesar shall go forth .
Error i ' the bill , sir , error i ' the bill ! I commanded the sleeves should be cut out and sewed up again , and that I 'll prove upon thee , though thy little finger be armed in a thimble .
Call thyself " sister , " sweet , for I am thee . Thee will I love and with thee lead my life ; Thou hast no husband yet , nor I no wife . Give me thy hand .
Let 's exchange charity . I am no less in blood than thou art , Edmund . If more , the more thou 'st wronged me . My name is Edgar , and thy father 's son . The gods are just , and of our pleasant vices Make instruments to plague us . The dark and vicious place where thee he got Cost him his eyes .
Go to , I say he shall have no wrong . Look about , Davy .
Who 's here ? Westmoreland ?
What , art thou ashamed of me ?
Not to relent is beastly , savage , devilish . My friend , I spy some pity in thy looks . O , if thine eye be not a flatterer , Come thou on my side and entreat for me . A begging prince what beggar pities not ?
Go to , go to . You are a saucy boy . Is ' t so , indeed ? This trick may chance to scathe you , I know what . You must contrary me . Marry , ' tis time . -- Well said , my hearts ! --You are a princox , go . Be quiet , or --More light , more light ! --For shame ! I 'll make you quiet . --What , cheerly , my hearts !
Where 's Potpan , that he helps not to take away ? He shift a trencher ? He scrape a trencher !
Be comforted . Let 's make us med'cines of our great revenge , To cure this deadly grief .
How now , my pretty knave ? How dost thou ?
Madam , in happy time , what day is that ?
My lord , I 'll tell you what : If my young lord your son have not the day , Upon mine honor , for a silken point I 'll give my barony . Never talk of it .
In happy time here comes the duke himself .
Tell him I 'll knock his leek about his pate Upon Saint Davy 's day .
First , know my horse is tired , my master and mistress fallen out .
How , my love ?
Boy , this shall not excuse the injuries That thou hast done me . Therefore turn and draw .
Come , come , you she knight - errant , come .
A match ! ' Tis done .
Good lords , conduct him to his regiment : I 'll strive with troubled thoughts to take a nap , Lest leaden slumber peise me down tomorrow , When I should mount with wings of victory . Once more , good night , kind lords and gentlemen .
Both , both , my lord . -- This letter , madam , craves a speedy answer . ' Tis from your sister .
Such proclamation hath been made , my lord .
You must sing A - down a - down --And you , Call him a - down - a--Oh , how the wheel becomes it ! It is the false steward that stole his master 's daughter .
I have a venturous fairy that shall seek The squirrel 's hoard and fetch thee new nuts .
My lord !
There , Hastings , I will never more remember Our former hatred , so thrive I and mine .
You made it known to us .
Nay , I will win my wager better yet , And show more sign of her obedience , Her new - built virtue and obedience .
Let us go . Good Enobarbus , make yourself my guest Whilst you abide here .
Was ' t you that did so oft contrive to kill him ?
Spake you of Caesar ? How , the nonpareil !
It did always seem so to us . But now in the division of the kingdom , it appears not which of the dukes he values most , for equalities are so weighed that curiosity in neither can make choice of either 's moiety .
I warrant thou art a merry fellow and carest for nothing .
I shall deliver so . Thanks to your Highness .
Ay , come , you starved bloodhound .
Troth , my lord , I have played the part of Lady Fame . I found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren . I told him , and I think I told him true , that your Grace had got the goodwill of this young lady , and I offered him my company to a willow tree , either to make him a garland , as being forsaken , or to bind him up a rod , as being worthy to be whipped .
Come , bring us , bring us where he is .
He hath ta'en th ' infection . Hold it up .
Where lies he ?
" Jove knows I love , But who ? Lips , do not move ; No man must know . "
Madam , before you touch the instrument , To learn the order of my fingering I must begin with rudiments of art , To teach you gamut in a briefer sort , More pleasant , pithy , and effectual Than hath been taught by any of my trade . And there it is in writing , fairly drawn .
With mine officer !
The king is in high rage .
Ay .
I charge thee , Satan , housed within this man , To yield possession to my holy prayers And to thy state of darkness hie thee straight . I conjure thee by all the saints in heaven .
Caesar ? Why , he 's the Jupiter of men .
Alas , poor hurt fowl , now will he creep into sedges . But that my Lady Beatrice should know me , and not know me ! The Prince 's fool ! Ha , it may be I go under that title because I am merry . Yea , but so I am apt to do myself wrong . I am not so reputed ! It is the base , though bitter , disposition of Beatrice that puts the world into her person and so gives me out . Well , I 'll be revenged as I may .
And " O " shall end , I hope .
Fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds In ranks and squadrons and right form of war , Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol . The noise of battle hurtled in the air . Horses did neigh , and dying men did groan , And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets . O Caesar ! These things are beyond all use , And I do fear them .
Is Brutus sick ? And is it physical To walk unbraced and suck up the humors Of the dank morning ? What , is Brutus sick , And will he steal out of his wholesome bed , To dare the vile contagion of the night And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air To add unto his sickness ? No , my Brutus . You have some sick offense within your mind , Which by the right and virtue of my place I ought to know of . And upon my knees I charm you , by my once - commended beauty , By all your vows of love and that great vow Which did incorporate and make us one That you unfold to me , your self , your half , Why you are heavy , and what men tonight Have had to resort to you . For here have been Some six or seven who did hide their faces Even from darkness .
Go , rascals , go , and fetch my supper in .
Why , Fool ?
I do desire it with all my heart , and I hope it is no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the world .
I am no traitor .
Dromio , go bid the servants spread for dinner .
Thank you .
My naked weapon is out . Quarrel ! I will back thee .
Alas , poor country ! Almost afraid to know itself . It cannot Be called our mother , but our grave , where nothing , But who knows nothing , is once seen to smile ; Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air Are made , not marked ; where violent sorrow seems A modern ecstasy . The dead man 's knell Is there scarce asked for who , and good men 's lives Expire before the flowers in their caps , Dying or ere they sicken .
Why , but there 's many a man hath more hair than wit .
Away , then ! Come , seek the conspirators .
Thou dost belie her , and thou art a devil .
Then you 'll buy ' em to sell again .
Under King Harry .
Gramercies , lad , go forward . This contents . The rest will comfort , for thy counsel 's sound .
A friend .
Where was his son when they did take his eyes ?
I wonder that you will still be talking , Signor Benedick . Nobody marks you .
No , let me speak , and let me rail so high That the false huswife Fortune break her wheel , Provoked by my offense .
Be not afraid . She shall not harm thee , Helena .
She did show favor to the youth in your sight only to exasperate you , to awake your dormouse valor , to put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver . You should then have accosted her , and with some excellent jests , fire - new from the mint , you should have banged the youth into dumbness .
He stays upon your will .
In faith , lady , you have a merry heart .
There I deny my land service . But give me your hand , Menas .
He altered much upon the hearing it .
There 's my hand .
Good my lord , what is your cause of distemper ? You do surely bar the door upon your own liberty if you deny your griefs to your friend .
We are not the first Who with best meaning have incurred the worst . For thee , oppressed King , I am cast down . Myself could else outfrown false fortune 's frown . Shall we not see these daughters and these sisters ?
How now ! What news ?
What 's he that goes there ?
Stand , ho !
O perdurable shame ! Let 's stab ourselves . Be these the wretches that we played at dice for ?
Is death mistermed . Calling death " banishment , " Thou cutt 'st my head off with a golden ax And smilest upon the stroke that murders me .
Taurus ! That 's sides and heart .
Good my lord , give me thy favor still . Be patient , for the prize I 'll bring thee to Shall hoodwink this mischance . Therefore speak softly . All' s hushed as midnight yet .
If ' twere no other --
Now , as you are a Roman , tell me true .
So deal with him as I prove true to you .
I like it well . Good Grumio , fetch it me .
What , frighted with false fire ?
Where is that viper ? Bring the villain forth .
Well , we will leave you then till dinnertime . I must be one of these same dumb wise men , For Gratiano never lets me speak .
And my help . Here comes the Prince and Claudio .
I understand you , sir . ' Tis well begged .
He is welcome hither .
To the death , my lord .
Sir , in good faith , or in sincere verity , Under th ' allowance of your great aspect , Whose influence , like the wreath of radiant fire On flickering Phoebus ' front --
Oh , thou art wise ! ' Tis certain .
I will take your counsel . And were these inward wars once out of hand , We would , dear lords , unto the Holy Land .
The lady protests too much , methinks .
I pray thee , chide not . Her I love now Doth grace for grace and love for love allow . The other did not so .
Ha ! My brave emperor , Shall we dance now the Egyptian bacchanals And celebrate our drink ?
Well , I conceive .
The instances that second marriage move Are base respects of thrift , but none of love . A second time I kill my husband dead When second husband kisses me in bed .
Nay , if an oily palm be not a fruitful prognostication , I cannot scratch mine ear . --Prithee , tell her but a workaday fortune .
Do you think I meant country matters ?
How ill this taper burns ! --Ha , who comes here ? I think it is the weakness of mine eyes That shapes this monstrous apparition . It comes upon me . --Art thou any thing ? Art thou some god , some angel , or some devil That makest my blood cold and my hair to stare ? Speak to me what thou art .
Peter , stay at the gate .
I will cut thy throat one time or other in fair terms , that is the humor of it .
Ding , dong , bell .
Lo , where he comes !
The Marshal of France , Monsieur la Far .
Nothing , sir , but that I am beaten .
You shall have letters of me presently . Come . Go along with me , good Master Gower .
It is too true an evil . Gone she is . And what 's to come of my despised time Is naught but bitterness . Now , Roderigo , Where didst thou see her?- -Oh , unhappy girl ! -- With the Moor , say 'st thou?- -Who would be a father?- - How didst thou know ' twas she?- -Oh , she deceives me Past thought ! --What said she to you?- -Get more tapers , Raise all my kindred . Are they married , think you ?
In Orsino 's bosom .
And so she doth , cousin .
I will anon . First let us go to dinner .
Well , my lord . If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing , And 'scape detecting , I will pay the theft .
Come , come , you 're mocking . We will have no telling .
I am an ass , I am a woman 's man , and besides myself .
Then to you , Mistress Dorothy ! I will charge you .
Hear you , cousin , a word .
Masters , never speak , we charge you , let us obey you go with us .
There is more in it . --Cousin Ganymede .
With your fair honors . You , Lord Archbishop , Whose see is by a civil peace maintained , Whose beard the silver hand of peace hath touched , Whose learning and good letters peace hath tutored , Whose white investments figure innocence , The dove and very blessed spirit of peace , Wherefore do you so ill translate yourself Out of the speech of peace , that bears such grace , Into the harsh and boist'rous tongue of war , Turning your books to graves , your ink to blood , Your pens to lances , and your tongue divine To a trumpet and a point of war ?
Not stingless too ?
I would not take this from report . It is , And my heart breaks at it .
Look to the drawbridge there !
The Lord protect him from that kingly title ! Hath he set bounds between their love and me ? I am their mother . Who shall bar me from them ?
The worst fault you have is to be in love .
What mercy can you render him , Antonio ?
Be of good cheer , youth . You a man ? You lack a man 's heart .
Edward thy son , that now is Prince of Wales , For Edward our son , that was Prince of Wales , Die in his youth by like untimely violence . Thyself a queen , for me that was a queen , Outlive thy glory , like my wretched self . Long mayst thou live to wail thy children 's death And see another , as I see thee now , Decked in thy rights , as thou art stalled in mine . Long die thy happy days before thy death , And , after many lengthened hours of grief , Die neither mother , wife , nor England 's queen . -- Rivers and Dorset , you were standers - by , And so wast thou , Lord Hastings , when my son Was stabbed with bloody daggers . God I pray Him That none of you may live his natural age , But by some unlooked accident cut off .
I 'll slit the villain 's nose that would have sent me to the jail .
I know ' t -- my sister 's . This approves her letter That she would soon be here . Is your lady come ?
He thinks he still is at his instrument . Lucius , awake .
My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind , So flewed , so sanded , and their heads are hung With ears that sweep away the morning dew , Crook - kneed , and dew - lapped like Thessalian bulls , Slow in pursuit , but matched in mouth like bells , Each under each . A cry more tunable Was never hollaed to , nor cheered with horn , In Crete , in Sparta , nor in Thessaly . Judge when you hear . But , soft ! What nymphs are these ?
Good ancient , you are welcome . --Welcome , mistress . Let it not gall your patience , good Iago , That I extend my manners . ' Tis my breeding That gives me this bold show of courtesy .
Bring you these fellows on . --We 'll talk with Margaret , How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow .
I shall not sleep in quiet at the Tower .
Think on thy sins .
Which is the lady I must seize upon ?
Then , I prithee , be merry . Thy wit shall ne'er go slipshod .
I 'll tell thee what , Prince : a college of wit - crackers cannot flout me out of my humor . Dost thou think I care for a satire or an epigram ? No. If a man will be beaten with brains , he shall wear nothing handsome about him . In brief , since I do purpose to marry , I will think nothing to any purpose that the world can say against it , and therefore never flout at me for what I have said against it . For man is a giddy thing , and this is my conclusion . --For thy part , Claudio , I did think to have beaten thee , but in that thou art like to be my kinsman , live unbruised , and love my cousin .
Well , well , thou hast a careful father , child . One who , to put thee from thy heaviness , Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy That thou expect 'st not , nor I looked not for .
All is one for that . A plague of all cowards , still say I.
If he were dead , you 'd weep for him . If you would not , it were a good sign that I should quickly have a new father .
Still better and worse .
What , is Antonio here ?
Cornwall and Albany , With my two daughters ' dowers digest this third . Let pride , which she calls plainness , marry her . I do invest you jointly with my power , Preeminence , and all the large effects That troop with majesty . Ourself , by monthly course , With reservation of an hundred knights By you to be sustained , shall our abode Make with you by due turns . Only shall we retain The name , and all th ' additions to a king . The sway , revenue , execution of the rest , Beloved sons , be yours ; which to confirm , This coronet part between you .
How is ' t , my lord ? How look you ?
Let me sit heavy in thy soul tomorrow , Rivers , that died at Pomfret . Despair , and die !
Do not then walk too open .
I do not doubt you .
Oh , temperance , lady !
Perhaps him and her , sir . What have you to do ?
Marry , that am I and my partner .
No , Antony , take the lot . But , first or last , Your fine Egyptian cookery shall have The fame . I have heard that Julius Caesar Grew fat with feasting there .
How now , my lord ? I have been talking with a suitor here , A man that languishes in your displeasure .
Go to . Stand aside .
That is the way to make her scorn you still .
Not to dispraise me and call me pantier and bread - chipper and I know not what ?
' Tis gone . We do it wrong , being so majestical , To offer it the show of violence , For it is , as the air , invulnerable , And our vain blows malicious mockery .
Nay , I told you your son was well beloved in Padua . --Do you hear , sir ? To leave frivolous circumstances , I pray you tell Signior Lucentio that his father is come from Pisa and is here at the door to speak with him .
Welcome , young man . Thou offer 'st fairly to thy brothers ' wedding : To one his lands withheld , and to the other A land itself at large , a potent dukedom . --First , in this forest let us do those ends That here were well begun and well begot , And , after , every of this happy number That have endured shrewd days and nights with us Shall share the good of our returned fortune According to the measure of their states . Meantime , forget this new - fall'n dignity , And fall into our rustic revelry . --Play , music . --And you brides and bridegrooms all , With measure heaped in joy to th ' measures fall .
Why , then she 's mine . --Sweet , let me see your face .
Come , come ! You talk !
These ears of mine , thou know 'st did hear thee . Fie on thee , wretch . ' Tis pity that thou liv 'st To walk where any honest men resort .
You have an excellent armor , but let my horse have his due .
I will speak lower .
Dear sir , of force I must attempt you further . Take some remembrance of us as a tribute , Not as a fee . Grant me two things , I pray you : Not to deny me , and to pardon me .
I pray you pardon me , I cannot speak .
Nay , their endeavor keeps in the wonted pace . But there is , sir , an eyrie of children , little eyases , that cry out on the top of question and are most tyrannically clapped for ' t . These are now the fashion , and so berattle the common stages -- so they call them -- that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose quills and dare scarce come thither .
Call you this railing ?
' Tis a noble Lepidus .
What should this mean ? Are all the rest come back ? Or is it some abuse , and no such thing ?
I 'll fetch him presently .
What , my good lord ?
I did ; I saw him dead , Breathless and bleeding on the ground . --Art thou alive ? Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight ? I prithee , speak . We will not trust our eyes Without our ears . Thou art not what thou seem'st .
An if I could , what should I get therefore ?
' Tis hot , it smokes . It came even from the heart of -- oh , she 's dead !
" The battle with the Centaurs , to be sung By an Athenian eunuch to the harp . " We 'll none of that . That have I told my love , In glory of my kinsman Hercules . " The riot of the tipsy Bacchanals , Tearing the Thracian singer in their rage . " That is an old device , and it was played When I from Thebes came last a conqueror .
Let 's meet him and receive him .
You nimble lightnings , dart your blinding flames Into her scornful eyes ! Infect her beauty , You fen - sucked fogs drawn by the powerful sun , To fall and blister !
My only love sprung from my only hate ! Too early seen unknown , and known too late ! Prodigious birth of love it is to me , That I must love a loathed enemy .
As I remember , Adam , it was upon this fashion bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns , and , as thou sayest , charged my brother on his blessing to breed me well . And there begins my sadness . My brother Jaques he keeps at school , and report speaks goldenly of his profit . For my part , he keeps me rustically at home or , to speak more properly , stays me here at home unkept ; for call you that " keeping " for a gentleman of my birth that differs not from the stalling of an ox ? His horses are bred better , for , besides that they are fair with their feeding , they are taught their manage and , to that end , riders dearly hired . But I , his brother , gain nothing under him but growth , for the which his animals on his dunghills are as much bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so plentifully gives me , the something that nature gave me his countenance seems to take from me . He lets me feed with his hinds , bars me the place of a brother , and , as much as in him lies , mines my gentility with my education . This is it , Adam , that grieves me , and the spirit of my father , which I think is within me , begins to mutiny against this servitude . I will no longer endure it , though yet I know no wise remedy how to avoid it .
So may it be indeed . Methinks thy voice is altered , and thou speak 'st In better phrase and matter than thou didst .
We four set upon some dozen .
O Dardanius !
Well , well , he was the covert 'st sheltered traitor That ever lived . -- Would you imagine , or almost believe , Were ' t not that by great preservation We live to tell it , that subtle traitor This day had plotted , in the council house To murder me and my good Lord of Gloucester ?
Is in his retirement marvelous distempered .
Marry , and did . But if you be remembered , I did not bid you mar it to the time . Go , hop me over every kennel home , For you shall hop without my custom , sir . I 'll none of it . Hence , make your best of it .
Bow - wow .
What art thou that keep 'st me out from the house I owe ?
God keep your Ladyship still in that mind , so some gentle - man or other shall 'scape a predestinate scratched face .
There is sure another flood toward , and these couples are coming to the ark . Here comes a pair of very strange beasts , which in all tongues are called fools .
To wake a wolf is as bad as to smell a fox .
Tut , fear not me .
In bodily health , sir .
What wouldst thou think of me if I should weep ?
Ay , so I think .
What if a man bring him a hundred pound or two to make merry withal ?
Now all the blessings Of a glad father , compass thee about . Arise , and say how thou camest here .
My gracious sovereign , now in Devonshire , As I by friends am well advertised , Sir Edward Courtney and the haughty prelate , Bishop of Exeter , his elder brother , With many more confederates are in arms .
By my knavery , then I were . But if you swear by that that is not , you are not forsworn . No more was this knight swearing by his honor , for he never had any ; or if he had , he had sworn it away before ever he saw those pancakes or that mustard .
Ill news , by ' r Lady . Seldom comes the better . I fear , I fear , ' twill prove a giddy world .
I will not think but they ascend the sky , And there awake God 's gentle - sleeping peace . O Buckingham , take heed of yonder dog ! Look when he fawns , he bites ; and when he bites , His venom tooth will rankle to the death . Have not to do with him . Beware of him . Sin , death , and hell have set their marks on him , And all their ministers attend on him .
I gave my love a ring and made him swear Never to part with it . And here he stands . I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it Nor pluck it from his finger for the wealth That the world masters . Now in faith , Gratiano , You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief . An ' twere to me , I should be mad at it .
We would have all such offenders so cut off , and we give express charge that in our marches through the country there be nothing compelled from the villages , nothing taken but paid for , none of the French upbraided or abused in disdainful language ; for when lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom , the gentler gamester is the soonest winner .
Do you think I 'll be forsworn ?
Pray thee go down .
Alas , why is she so ?
I ' faith , his hair is of a good color .
