Il est trop difficile , madame , comme je pense .
Your worship 's friend and Launcelot , sir .
I beseech you , which is Justice Shallow ?
By nursing them , my lord . List a brief tale , And when ' tis told , oh , that my heart would burst ! The bloody proclamation to escape , That followed me so near --O our lives ' sweetness ,
My captain , sir , commends him to you , my captain , Sir John Falstaff , a tall gentleman , by heaven , and a most gallant leader .
Let me go in to see the generals . There is some grudge between ' em . ' Tis not meet They be alone .
Every time serves for the matter that is then born in ' t .
Speak , cousin , or if you cannot , stop his mouth with a kiss and let not him speak neither .
Be wise , and get you home .
Leave him to my displeasure . --Edmund , keep you our sister company . The revenges we are bound to take upon your traitorous father are not fit for your beholding . Advise the duke where you are going , to a most festinate preparation . We are bound to the like . Our posts shall be swift and intelligent betwixt us . --Farewell , dear sister . Farewell , my lord of Gloucester .
Who 's there ?
By heaven , I think there is no man is secure But the queen 's kindred and night - walking heralds That trudge betwixt the king and Mistress Shore . Heard ye not what an humble suppliant Lord Hastings was to her for his delivery ?
God and the rope - maker bear me witness That I was sent for nothing but a rope .
' Tis noble Kent , your friend .
What should I speak ? I stand dishonored , that have gone about To link my dear friend to a common stale .
Hear me yet , good Shylock .
Faith , I know not what to say .
What horse ? A roan , a crop - ear , is it not ?
Therefore give out you are of Epidamnum , Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate . This very day a Syracusian merchant Is apprehended for arrival here And , not being able to buy out his life , According to the statute of the town Dies ere the weary sun set in the west . There is your money that I had to keep .
How fares our cousin Hamlet ?
To the selfsame tune and words . Who 's here ?
Lo thee !
Amen .
But which are the offenders that are to be examined ? Let them come before Master Constable .
And this is more , masters , than you can deny . Prince John is this morning secretly stolen away . Hero was in this manner accused , in this very manner refused , and upon the grief of this , suddenly died . --Master Constable , let these men be bound and brought to Leonato 's . I will go before and show him their examination .
Nay , but say true , does it work upon him ?
The duke of Gloucester , to whom the order of the siege is given , is altogether directed by an Irishman , a very valiant gentleman , i ' faith .
You say well .
Stanley , what news with you ?
As a friend or an enemy ?
But small to greater matters must give way .
And such a one do I profess myself . For , sir , It is as sure as you are Roderigo , Were I the Moor , I would not be Iago . In following him , I follow but myself . Heaven is my judge , not I for love and duty , But seeming so , for my peculiar end . For when my outward action doth demonstrate The native act and figure of my heart In compliment extern , ' tis not long after But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve For daws to peck at . I am not what I am .
But by and by comes back to Romeo , Who had but newly entertained revenge , And to ' t they go like lightning , for ere I Could draw to part them was stout Tybalt slain . And , as he fell , did Romeo turn and fly . This is the truth , or let Benvolio die .
Knows he the wickedness ?
We are the queen 's abjects and must obey . -- Brother , farewell . I will unto the king , And whatsoe'er you will employ me in , Were it to call King Edward 's widow " sister , " I will perform it to enfranchise you . Meantime , this deep disgrace in brotherhood Touches me deeper than you can imagine .
What , he did not !
As I did sleep under this yew tree here , I dreamt my master and another fought , And that my master slew him .
Bid every noise be still . Peace yet again .
Search , seek , and know how this foul murder comes .
Why , " Jack , boy ! Ho , boy ! " and as much news as wilt thou .
What shall I do ?
But , like the owner of a foul disease , To keep it from divulging , let it feed Even on the pith of life . Where is he gone ?
' Tis in my memory locked , And you yourself shall keep the key of it .
Ye say honestly . Rest you merry .
My good lords both , with all the heed I can .
I will discharge it in either your straw - color beard , your orange - tawny beard , your purple - in - grain beard , or your French crown - color beard , your perfect yellow .
Not sad , my lord .
Five - and - twenty , sir .
' Tis one of those odd tricks which sorrow shoots Out of the mind .
O lamentable day !
Less in your knowledge and your grace you show not Than our earth 's wonder , more than earth divine . Teach me , dear creature , how to think and speak . Lay open to my earthy gross conceit , Smothered in errors , feeble , shallow , weak , The folded meaning of your words ' deceit . Against my soul 's pure truth why labour you To make it wander in an unknown field ? Are you a god ? would you create me new ? Transform me , then , and to your power I 'll yield . But if that I am I , then well I know Your weeping sister is no wife of mine , Nor to her bed no homage do I owe . Far more , far more , to you do I decline . O , train me not , sweet mermaid , with thy note To drown me in thy sister 's flood of tears . Sing , Siren , for thyself , and I will dote . Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs , And as a bed I 'll take them and there lie , And in that glorious supposition think He gains by death that hath such means to die . Let Love , being light , be drowned if she sink .
Behold yond simpering dame , whose face between her forks presages snow , that minces virtue and does shake the head to hear of pleasure 's name . The fitchew , nor the soiled horse , goes to ' t with a more riotous appetite . Down from the waist they are centaurs , though women all above . But to the girdle do the gods inherit ; beneath is all the fiends ' . There 's hell , there 's darkness , there 's the sulfurous pit -- burning , scalding , stench , consumption ! Fie , fie , fie , pah , pah ! --Give me an ounce of civet , good apothecary , to sweeten my imagination . There 's money for thee .
O lamentable day !
And that same vengeance doth He hurl on thee For false forswearing and for murder too . Thou didst receive the sacrament to fight In quarrel of the house of Lancaster .
No , marry . I fear thee .
Bring him through the bands .
I warrant you , as common as the way between Saint Alban 's and London .
What two crowns shall they be ?
I will tell you the beginning , and if it please your Ladyships , you may see the end , for the best is yet to do , and here , where you are , they are coming to perform it .
As the indifferent children of the earth .
Give me thy glove , soldier . Look , here is the fellow of it . ' Twas I indeed thou promised 'st to strike , And thou hast given me most bitter terms .
Alack , I am afraid they have awaked , And ' tis not done . Th ' attempt and not the deed Confounds us . Hark ! I laid their daggers ready ; He could not miss ' em . Had he not resembled My father as he slept , I had done ' t .
' Tis brief , my lord .
Pray God , he keep his oath !
Thus hath the candle singed the moth . O these deliberate fools ! When they do choose , They have the wisdom by their wit to lose .
Let me play the lion too . I will roar , that I will do any man 's heart good to hear me . I will roar , that I will make the duke say , " Let him roar again . Let him roar again . "
No , wench ! It eats and sleeps and hath such senses As we have , such . This gallant which thou seest Was in the wrack . And , but he 's something stained With grief that 's beauty 's canker , thou mightst call him A goodly person . He hath lost his fellows And strays about to find ' em .
Ay , and this .
Strike on the tinder , ho ! Give me a taper , call up all my people ! This accident is not unlike my dream , Belief of it oppresses me already . Light , I say , light !
Your reproof is something too round . I should be angry with you if the time were convenient .
Sir John , you loiter here too long , being you are to take soldiers up in counties as you go .
Yes , just .
Cassio , my lord ? No , sure , I cannot think it That he would steal away so guilty - like Seeing you coming .
Beloved of me , and that my deeds shall prove .
What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and hose and leaves off his wit !
I fear it , I promise you .
Let housewifery appear . Keep close , I thee command .
No , my good lord .
Hear me , good brother --
Yes , I thank God I am as honest as any man living that is an old man and no honester than I.
Before God , I am exceeding weary .
Thou'rt a tall fellow . Hold thee that to drink . Gives money
I but believe it partly , For I am fresh of spirit and resolved To meet all perils very constantly .
Well , the beginning that is dead and buried .
Forbear me .
And I am one that love Bianca more Than words can witness or your thoughts can guess .
Well , what is it ? Is it within reason and compass ?
Why prat 'st thou to thyself and answer 'st not ? Dromio -- thou , Dromio -- thou snail , thou slug , thou sot .
Fare you well . Go .
Foul whisp'rings are abroad . Unnatural deeds Do breed unnatural troubles . Infected minds To their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets . More needs she the divine than the physician . God , God forgive us all ! Look after her , Remove from her the means of all annoyance , And still keep eyes upon her . So , good night . My mind she has mated , and amazed my sight . I think , but dare not speak .
O sweet Portia , Here are a few of the unpleasant 'st words That ever blotted paper . Gentle lady , When I did first impart my love to you , I freely told you , all the wealth I had Ran in my veins . I was a gentleman , And then I told you true . And yet , dear lady , Rating myself at nothing , you shall see How much I was a braggart . When I told you My state was nothing , I should then have told you That I was worse than nothing , for indeed I have engaged myself to a dear friend , Engaged my friend to his mere enemy To feed my means . Here is a letter , lady , The paper as the body of my friend , And every word in it a gaping wound , Issuing life blood . --But is it true , Salerio ? Have all his ventures failed ? What , not one hit ? From Tripolis , from Mexico and England , From Lisbon , Barbary , and India ? And not one vessel 'scape the dreadful touch Of merchant - marring rocks ?
What hath he said ?
What do you mean ?
An if I be , sir , is it any offense ?
She speaks much of her father , says she hears There 's tricks i ' th ' world , and hems , and beats her heart , Spurns enviously at straws , speaks things in doubt That carry but half sense . Her speech is nothing , Yet the unshaped use of it doth move The hearers to collection . They aim at it , And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts , Which , as her winks and nods and gestures yield them , Indeed would make one think there might be thought , Though nothing sure , yet much unhappily .
I know not . Here he is , and here I yield him . And I beseech your Grace let it be booked with the rest of this day 's deeds , or , by the Lord , I will have it in a particular ballad else , with mine own picture on the top on ' t , Colevile kissing my foot ; to the which course if I be enforced , if you do not all show
My remedy is then to pluck it out .
And from my soul too , else beshrew them both .
Thou dost me yet but little hurt . Thou wilt anon , I know it by thy trembling . Now Prosper works upon thee .
I will , my lord . God give your Grace good rest .
I go .
Let 's hear him , for the things he speaks may concern Caesar .
And yours as blunt as the fencer 's foils , which hit but hurt not .
Whither indeed , before thy here - approach , Old Siward , with ten thousand warlike men , Already at a point , was setting forth . Now we 'll together , and the chance of goodness Be like our warranted quarrel ! Why are you silent ?
To move is to stir , and to be valiant is to stand . Therefore if thou art moved thou runn 'st away .
Tush , Gremio . Though it pass your patience and mine to endure her loud alarums , why , man , there be good fellows in the world , an a man could light on them , would take her with all faults , and money enough .
Nay , but the man that was his bedfellow , Whom he hath dulled and cloyed with gracious favors -- That he should , for a foreign purse , so sell His sovereign 's life to death and treachery !
It is determined , not concluded yet ; But so it must be if the king miscarry .
Not so , sir , neither . I know my duty .
These promises are fair , the parties sure , And our induction full of prosperous hope .
Where Spain ?
Sir , my lord would speak with you .
Here comes another of the tribe . A third cannot be matched unless the devil himself turn Jew .
Masters , the duke is coming from the temple , and there is two or three lords and ladies more married . If our sport had gone forward , we had all been made men .
No , I will not . All strange and terrible events are welcome , But comforts we despise . Our size of sorrow , Proportioned to our cause , must be as great As that which makes it .
How camest thou hither , tell me , and wherefore ? The orchard walls are high and hard to climb , And the place death , considering who thou art , If any of my kinsmen find thee here .
Cool it with a baboon 's blood , Then the charm is firm and good .
Sovereign of Egypt , hail !
How , my pretty York ? I prithee let me hear it .
Who calls ?
If you desire the spleen , and will laugh yourself into stitches , follow me . Yond gull Malvolio is turned heathen , a very renegado . For there is no Christian that means to be saved by believing rightly can ever believe such impossible passages of grossness . He 's in yellow stockings .
What ho , I say ! Peace in this prison !
' Tis a quick lie , sir . ' Twill away gain from me to you .
So Fulvia told me . I prithee , turn aside and weep for her . Then bid adieu to me , and say the tears Belong to Egypt . Good now , play one scene Of excellent dissembling , and let it look Like perfect honor .
God save you , Sir John .
Some man or other must present Wall . And let him have some plaster , or some loam , or some roughcast about him to signify wall . And let him hold his fingers thus , and through that cranny shall Pyramus and Thisbe whisper .
The best and soundest of his time hath been but rash . Then must we look from his age to receive not alone the imperfections of long - engrafted condition , but therewithal the unruly waywardness that infirm and choleric years bring with them .
For the which she wept heartily and said she cared not .
Now sits the wind fair , and we will aboard . --My Lord of Cambridge , and my kind Lord of Masham , And you , my gentle knight , give me your thoughts . Think you not that the powers we bear with us Will cut their passage through the force of France , Doing the execution and the act For which we have in head assembled them ?
Oh , but I fear . How lost you company ?
Tut , our horses they shall not see ; I 'll tie them in the wood . Our vizards we will change after we leave them . And , sirrah , I have cases of buckram for the nonce , to immask our noted outward garments .
O noble Emperor , do not fight by sea ! Trust not to rotten planks . Do you misdoubt This sword and these my wounds ? Let th ' Egyptians And the Phoenicians go a - ducking . We Have used to conquer standing on the earth And fighting foot to foot .
Thus much the business is : we have here writ To Norway , uncle of young Fortinbras -- Who , impotent and bedrid , scarcely hears Of this his nephew 's purpose -- to suppress His further gait herein , in that the levies , The lists , and full proportions are all made Out of his subject ; and we here dispatch You , good Cornelius , and you , Voltemand , For bearers of this greeting to old Norway , Giving to you no further personal power To business with the king more than the scope Of these dilated articles allow . Farewell , and let your haste commend your duty .
Here 's sport indeed ! How heavy weighs my lord ! Our strength is all gone into heaviness , That makes the weight . Had I great Juno 's power , The strong - winged Mercury should fetch thee up And set thee by Jove 's side . Yet come a little . Wishers were ever fools . Oh , come , come , come !
I 'll rhyme you so eight years together , dinners and suppers and sleeping hours excepted . It is the right butter - women 's rank to market .
Why , how now , Stephano ?
Thou hast suborned the goldsmith to arrest me .
I am old , I am old .
The king hath run bad humors on the knight , that 's the even of it .
Then are our beggars bodies , and our monarchs and outstretched heroes the beggars ' shadows . Shall we to th ' court ? For by my fay , I cannot reason .
Fetch forth the stocks ! As I have life and honor , there shall he sit till noon .
How ? The best ? What wert thou if the King of Naples heard thee ?
For God 's love , let me hear .
Who 's there ? Othello ?
What is your name ?
Tut , tut , thou art all ice ; thy kindness freezes . Say , have I thy consent that they shall die ?
Whate'er becomes of me , This is a soldier 's kiss . Rebukable And worthy shameful check it were to stand On more mechanic compliment . I 'll leave thee Now like a man of steel . You that will fight , Follow me close . I 'll bring you to ' t . Adieu .
The Ottomites , reverend and gracious , Steering with due course toward the isle of Rhodes , Have there injointed them with an after fleet .
There 's no composition in this news That gives them credit .
' Tis well , sir , that you hunted for yourself . ' Tis thought your deer does hold you at a bay .
" De nick , " madame .
No , if without more words you will get you hence .
All dark and comfortless . Where 's my son Edmund ? Edmund , enkindle all the sparks of nature To quit this horrid act .
His words were , " Farewell , mistress . " Nothing else .
Signior Lucentio , this is the ' pointed day That Katherine and Petruchio should be married , And yet we hear not of our son - in - law . What will be said ? What mockery will it be , To want the bridegroom when the priest attends To speak the ceremonial rites of marriage ? What says Lucentio to this shame of ours ?
His speech was like a tangled chain . Nothing impaired , but all disordered . Who is next ?
This is true that I say : an I had thee in place where , thou shouldst know it .
My lord , my lord .
Mowbray , you overween to take it so . This offer comes from mercy , not from fear . For , lo , within a ken our army lies , Upon mine honor , all too confident To give admittance to a thought of fear . Our battle is more full of names than yours , Our men more perfect in the use of arms , Our armor all as strong , our cause the best . Then reason will our hearts should be as good . Say you not then our offer is compelled .
Good madam , keep yourself within yourself . The man is innocent .
My royal lord , You do not give the cheer . The feast is sold That is not often vouched , while ' tis a - making , ' Tis given with welcome . To feed were best at home ; From thence , the sauce to meat is ceremony ; Meeting were bare without it .
You , ladies , you whose gentle hearts do fear The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor , May now perchance both quake and tremble here , When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar . Then know that I , as Snug the joiner , am A lion fell , nor else no lion 's dam . For if I should as lion come in strife Into this place , ' twere pity on my life .
I prithee , hear me speak .
How now , Cassio !
With all my heart , and it doth much content me To hear him so inclined . Good gentlemen , give him a further edge , And drive his purpose on to these delights .
And after that he came thus sad away ?
Ere he take ship for France , and in Southampton . Linger your patience on , and we 'll digest Th ' abuse of distance , force a play . The sum is paid , the traitors are agreed , The king is set from London , and the scene Is now transported , gentles , to Southampton . There is the playhouse now , there must you sit , And thence to France shall we convey you safe And bring you back , charming the narrow seas To give you gentle pass ; for , if we may , We 'll not offend one stomach with our play . But , till the king come forth , and not till then , Unto Southampton do we shift our scene .
So long ? Nay then , let the devil wear black , for I 'll have a suit of sables . O heavens ! Die two months ago and not forgotten yet ? Then there 's hope a great man 's memory may outlive his life half a year . But , by ' r Lady , he must build churches then , or else shall he suffer not thinking on , with the hobby - horse , whose epitaph is " For , oh , for , oh , the hobby - horse is forgot . "
A better than thou . I am a gentleman . Thou art a drawer .
And here he comes . --All health , my sovereign lord .
And so there is . But yet the King hath drawn The special head of all the land together : The Prince of Wales , Lord John of Lancaster , The noble Westmoreland , and warlike Blunt , And many more corrivals and dear men Of estimation and command in arms .
By this good light , this is a very shallow monster . I afeard of him ! A very weak monster . The man i ' th ' moon ! A most poor credulous monster . --Well drawn , monster , in good sooth !
Of him , sir .
Will you go hear this news , Signior ?
She hath , and in that sparing makes huge waste , For beauty , starved with her severity , Cuts beauty off from all posterity . She is too fair , too wise , wisely too fair , To merit bliss by making me despair . She hath forsworn to love , and in that vow Do I live dead that live to tell it now .
Why didst thou send me forth , brave Cassius ? Did I not meet thy friends ? And did not they Put on my brows this wreath of victory And bid me give it thee ? Didst thou not hear their shouts ? Alas , thou hast misconstrued everything ! But , hold thee , take this garland on thy brow . Thy Brutus bid me give it thee , and I Will do his bidding . Brutus , come apace , And see how I regarded Caius Cassius . --By your leave , gods , this is a Roman 's part . Come , Cassius ' sword , and find Titinius ' heart .
Not a whit , Touchstone . Those that are good manners at the court are as ridiculous in the country as the behavior of the country is most mockable at the court . You told me you salute not at the court but you kiss your hands . That courtesy would be uncleanly if courtiers were shepherds .
In spite of your heart , I think . Alas , poor heart , if you spite it for my sake , I will spite it for yours , for I will never love that which my riend hates .
My lord , he hath importuned me with love In honorable fashion .
Who calls ?
Make haste . The hour of death is expiate .
Nothing is good , I see , without respect . Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day .
I do not bid the thunder - bearer shoot , Nor tell tales of thee to high - judging Jove . Mend when thou canst . Be better at thy leisure . I can be patient . I can stay with Regan , I and my hundred knights .
Lie with her ? lie on her ? We say " lie on her " when they belie her ! Lie with her -- that 's fulsome . Handkerchief -- confessions -- handkerchief ! To confess , and be hanged for his labor . First to be hanged , and then to confess --I tremble at it . Nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passion without some instruction . It is not words that shake me thus . Pish ! Noses , ears , and lips . Is ' t possible ? Confess ! --Handkerchief! --Oh , devil ! --
Lady , were you her bedfellow last night ?
Oh , on my soul , my cousin is belied !
What , is the King but five-and twenty - thousand ?
As merry as crickets , my lad . But hark you , what cunning match have you made with this jest of the drawer . Come , what 's the issue ?
And a true lover of the holy Church .
Tennis balls , my liege .
Soothsayer !
And I will take up that with " Give the devil his due . "
If you be he , sir , I desire some confidence with you .
Why , that 's well said .
Yet I am doubtful , for I am mainly ignorant What place this is , and all the skill I have Remembers not these garments . Nor I know not Where I did lodge last night . Do not laugh at me , For as I am a man , I think this lady To be my child Cordelia .
So I lose none In seeking to augment it , but still keep My bosom franchised and allegiance clear , I shall be counselled .
Why do we hold our tongues , That most may claim this argument for ours ?
Hence , and avoid my sight ! -- So be my grave my peace as here I give Her father 's heart from her . --Call France . Who stirs ? Call Burgundy . --
How long hast thou to serve , Francis ?
I cry you mercy .
Say on , my loving lord .
Now , fair Hippolyta , our nuptial hour Draws on apace . Four happy days bring in Another moon . But oh , methinks how slow This old moon wanes ! She lingers my desires , Like to a stepdame or a dowager Long withering out a young man 's revenue .
Do you see this , O God ?
Belike they had some notice of the people How I had moved them . Bring me to Octavius .
Why is this reasoned ?
And fair words to them .
Est - il impossible d' Echapper la force de ton bras ?
Who is thy lord ?
Faith , none but Humfrey Hower , that called your Grace To breakfast once , forth of my company . If I be so disgracious in your eye , Let me march on and not offend you , madam . -- Strike up the drum .
The wall , methinks , being sensible , should curse again .
Well , more anon . --Comes the king forth , I pray you ?
Beatrice - -
Tomorrow , then , we will attend your Grace , And so most joyfully we take our leave .
From both , my lord . Bellario greets your grace .
Pray God it be , sir .
Is he whipped ?
Sir , being his knave , I will .
But thus , I trust , you will not marry her .
Now gods that we adore , whereof comes this ?
I owe you none till I receive the chain .
Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much .
Wherefore did you so ?
O my good lord , the Duke of Cornwall 's dead , Slain by his servant , going to put out The other eye of Gloucester .
What misadventure is so early up That calls our person from our morning rest ?
" Thrust him downstairs " ? Know we not Galloway nags ?
But not by him .
All is confirmed , my lord , which was reported .
Now , where 's your master ?
Would you buy her , that you enquire after her ?
As birds do , Mother .
Th ' abuse of greatness is when it disjoins Remorse from power . And , to speak truth of Caesar , I have not known when his affections swayed More than his reason . But ' tis a common proof That lowliness is young ambition 's ladder , Whereto the climber upward turns his face . But when he once attains the upmost round , He then unto the ladder turns his back , Looks in the clouds , scorning the base degrees By which he did ascend . So Caesar may . Then , lest he may , prevent . And since the quarrel Will bear no color for the thing he is , Fashion it thus : that what he is , augmented , Would run to these and these extremities . And therefore think him as a serpent 's egg -- Which , hatched , would as his kind grow mischievous -- And kill him in the shell .
I found it in my chamber , And he himself confessed but even now That there he dropped it for a special purpose Which wrought to his desire .
Read it .
Run after that same peevish messenger , The county 's man . He left this ring behind him , Would I or not . Tell him I 'll none of it . OLIVIA hands him a ring Desire him not to flatter with his lord , Nor hold him up with hopes . I am not for him . If that the youth will come this way tomorrow , I 'll give him reasons for ' t . Hie thee , Malvolio .
Go to , go to . You have known what you should not .
I ' faith , lady , I think your blazon to be true , though , I 'll be sworn , if he be so , his conceit is false . --Here , Claudio , I have wooed in thy name , and fair Hero is won . I have broke with her father and his goodwill obtained . Name the day of marriage , and God give thee joy .
Good Norfolk , hie thee to thy charge . Use careful watch . Choose trusty sentinels .
Means your lordship to be married tomorrow ?
These three world - sharers , these competitors , Are in thy vessel . Let me cut the cable , And , when we are put off , fall to their throats . All there is thine .
Hear ye , Yedward , if I tarry at home and go not , I 'll hang you for going .
Art thou his friend ?
If my passion change not shortly , God forbid it should be otherwise .
I will not sleep , my lord , till I have delivered your letter .
What 's the matter ?
The clock hath stricken three .
I 'll tell thee . Life and death ! I am ashamed That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus , That these hot tears which break from me perforce Should make thee worth them . Blasts and fogs upon thee ! Th ' untented woundings of a father 's curse Pierce every sense about thee ! Old fond eyes , Beweep this cause again , I 'll pluck ye out
Why , Percy I killed myself , and saw thee dead .
Come , come it nay not be . I wonder much , Being men of such great leading as you are , That you foresee not what impediments Drag back our expedition . Certain horse Of my cousin Vernon 's are not yet come up . Your Uncle Worcester 's horse came but today , And now their pride and mettle is asleep , Their courage with hard labor tame and dull , That not a horse is half the half of himself .
Nay , press not so upon me . Stand far off .
You are naught , you are naught . I 'll mark the play .
Will not King Richard let me speak with him ?
Well , my good lord .
And when we have our naked frailties hid , That suffer in exposure , let us meet And question this most bloody piece of work , To know it further . Fears and scruples shake us . In the great hand of God I stand , and thence Against the undivulged pretense I fight Of treasonous malice .
It doth so .
I thank you . Keep the door . --O thou vile king , Give me my father !
All things in common nature should produce Without sweat or endeavor . Treason , felony , Sword , pike , knife , gun , or need of any engine , Would I not have . But nature should bring forth Of its own kind all foison , all abundance , To feed my innocent people .
You should for that have reprehended him .
Make me a willow cabin at your gate And call upon my soul within the house . Write loyal cantons of contemned love And sing them loud even in the dead of night . Halloo your name to the reverberate hills And make the babbling gossip of the air Cry out " Olivia ! " Oh , you should not rest Between the elements of air and earth , But you should pity me .
I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws of a lion .
The more fool you for laying on my duty .
Even or odd , of all days in the year , Come Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen . Susan and she --God rest all Christian souls ! -- Were of an age . Well , Susan is with God . She was too good for me . But , as I said , On Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen . That shall she . Marry , I remember it well . ' Tis since the earthquake now eleven years , And she was weaned --I never shall forget it -- Of all the days of the year , upon that day . For I had then laid wormwood to my dug , Sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall . My lord and you were then at Mantua . -- Nay , I do bear a brain . --But , as I said , When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple Of my dug and felt it bitter , pretty fool , To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug ! " Shake ! " quoth the dovehouse . ' Twas no need , I trow , To bid me trudge . And since that time it is eleven years , For then she could stand alone . Nay , by the rood , She could have run and waddled all about , For even the day before , she broke her brow . And then my husband --God be with his soul ! He was a merry man -- took up the child . " Yea , " quoth he , " Dost thou fall upon thy face ? Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit , Wilt thou not , Jule ? " and , by my holy dame , The pretty wretch left crying and said " ay . " To see now , how a jest shall come about ! I warrant , an I should live a thousand years , I never should forget it . " Wilt thou not , Jule ? " quoth he . And , pretty fool , it stinted and said " ay . "
Bear her my true love 's kiss ; and so , farewell .
If I could add a lie unto a fault I would deny it . but you see my finger Hath not the ring upon it . It is gone .
What 's he that now is going out of door ?
O bear me witness , night --
Pish !
Swear !
Please it your Grace lead on ?
Marry , sir , she 's the kitchen wench , and all grease , and I know not what use to put her to but to make a lamp of her and run from her by her own light . I warrant her rags and the
Methinks you 're better spoken .
It may chance cost some of us our lives , for he will stab .
Ay , my good lord .
But this denoted a foregone conclusion .
We know thy charge , Brakenbury , and will obey .
I 'll make her come , I warrant you , presently .
He 'll never yield to that .
And hath challenged thee ?
Heaven restore thee !
The carriages , sir , are the hangers .
What , my lord ?
That love i begged for you he begged of me .
My tricksy spirit !
O yes , if any hour meet a sergeant , he turns back for very fear .
As any man in Illyria , whatsoever he be , under the degree of my betters . And yet I will not compare with an old man .
Hail .
Bethink yourself wherein you may have offended him . And at my entreaty forbear his presence till some little time hath qualified the heat of his displeasure , which at this instant so rageth in him that with the mischief of your person it would scarcely allay .
I will do ' t , my lord .
I will not charm my tongue , I am bound to speak . My mistress here lies murdered in her bed --
All hail , great master ! Grave sir , hail ! I come To answer thy best pleasure , be ' t to fly , To swim , to dive into the fire , to ride On the curled clouds . To thy strong bidding , task Ariel and all his quality .
Tell me your mind .
Come , let me wipe thy face .
' Tis said , man , and farewell .
O come , Ventidius . You must to Parthia . Your commission 's ready . Follow me and receive ' t .
Let 's speak to him .
What , man , ' tis not so much , ' tis not so much . ' Tis since the nuptials of Lucentio , Come Pentecost as quickly as it will , Some five and twenty years , and then we masked .
Didst thou hear these verses ?
Hates any man the thing he would not kill ?
No , I protest , I know not the contents . Phoebe did write it .
Madam , O good Empress !
That 's not so good now .
Why , now you have done me right .
And lessened be that small , God I beseech Him ! Thy honor , state , and seat is due to me .
Mistrust of good success hath done this deed . O hateful error , melancholy 's child , Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men The things that are not ? O error , soon conceived , Thou never comest unto a happy birth But kill 'st the mother that engendered thee !
Look whe'e he has not turned his color and has tears in 's eyes . --Prithee , no more .
I am very glad to see you , signior . Welcome to Cyprus .
Marry , your manhood , mew !
He is married ?
Carry this mad knave to the jail . --Father Baptista , I charge you see that he be forthcoming .
' Tis well . And I have met a gentleman Hath promised me to help me to another , A fine musician to instruct our mistress . So shall I no whit be behind in duty To fair Bianca , so beloved of me .
What , look you pale?- -Oh , bear him out o ' the air . --
These tidings will well comfort Cassius .
My lord , you know I love you .
What , the chain ?
What pace is this that thy tongue keeps ?
Here is everything advantageous to life .
Good Master Silence , it well befits you should be of the peace .
I will , lady .
For God 's sake , lords , convey my tristful queen , For tears do stop the floodgates of her eyes .
The honorable lady of the house , which is she ?
I have as much of this in art as you , But yet my nature could not bear it so .
Sirs , take up the corse .
Arise . One knocks . Good Romeo , hide thyself .
Get you to bed again . It is not day . Is not tomorrow , boy , the ides of March ?
No , believe me .
Anon , anon .
Thou coward , art thou bragging to the stars , Telling the bushes that thou look 'st for wars , And wilt not come ? Come , recreant . Come , thou child ! I 'll whip thee with a rod . He is defiled That draws a sword on thee .
How much unlike art thou Mark Antony ! Yet , coming from him , that great med'cine hath With his tinct gilded thee . How goes it with my brave Mark Antony ?
I beseech you , remember --
I have well approved it , sir . I drunk !
Montjoy .
What a pestilent knave is this same !
What , ho , Brabantio ! Signior Brabantio , ho !
If that be jest , then all the rest was so .
' Tis such another fitchew . Marry , a perfumed one . -- What do you mean by this haunting of me ?
Good King of Cats , nothing but one of your nine lives , that I mean to make bold withal , and , as you shall use me hereafter , dry - beat the rest of the eight . Will you pluck your sword out of his pilcher by the ears ? Make haste , lest mine be about your ears ere it be out .
Sleep dwell upon thine eyes , peace in thy breast . Would I were sleep and peace , so sweet to rest . Hence will I to my ghostly friar 's close cell , His help to crave and my dear hap to tell .
Then learn this of me : to have is to have . For it is a figure in rhetoric that drink , being poured out of a cup into a glass , by filling the one doth empty the other . For all your writers do consent that ipse is " he . " Now , you are not ipse , for I am he .
Nor no one here , for curses never pass The lips of those that breathe them in the air .
We charge you , in the Prince 's name , stand !
Why , so I do , the noblest that I have . Oh , when mine eyes did see Olivia first , Methought she purged the air of pestilence . That instant was I turned into a hart , And my desires , like fell and cruel hounds , E' er since pursue me .
Mistress , we have .
Come , we 'll have him in a dark room and bound . My niece is already in the belief that he 's mad . We may carry it thus , for our pleasure and his penance , till our very pastime , tired out of breath , prompt us to have mercy on him , at which time we will bring the device to the bar and crown thee for a finder of madmen . But see , but see !
Out of their saddles into the dirt , and thereby hangs a tale .
Look , how this ring encompasseth finger ; Even so thy breast encloseth my poor heart . Wear both of them , for both of them are thine . And if thy poor devoted servant may But beg one favor at thy gracious hand , Thou dost confirm his happiness forever .
Ay , with a twink .
A virtuous maid , the daughter of a count That died some twelvemonth since , then leaving her In the protection of his son , her brother , Who shortly also died , for whose dear love , They say , she hath abjured the company And sight of men .
A man , young lady ! Lady , such a man As all the world . Why , he 's a man of wax .
And good ev'n to you , sir .
Show .
What pagan may that be ?
You speak as having power to do wrong ; but answer in th ' effect of your reputation , and satisfy this poor woman .
What , are you busy , ho ? Need you my help ?
Lucillius , do you the like . And let no man Come to our tent till we have done our conference . Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door .
I do not think ' t .
Sir , I shall study deserving .
To Dover .
In such a night Did Jessica steal from the wealthy Jew , And with an unthrift love did run from Venice As far as Belmont .
I will weary you then no longer with idle talking . Know of me then -- for now I speak to some purpose -- that I know you are a gentleman of good conceit . I speak not this that you should bear a good opinion of my knowledge , insomuch I say I know you are . Neither do I labor for a greater esteem than may in some little measure draw a belief from you to do yourself good , and not to grace me . Believe then , if you please , that I can do strange things . I have , since I was three year old , conversed with a magician , most profound in his art and yet not damnable . If you do love Rosalind so near the heart as your gesture cries it out , when your brother marries Aliena shall you marry her . I know into what straits of fortune she is driven , and it is not impossible to me , if it appear not inconvenient to you , to set her before your eyes tomorrow , human as she is , and without any danger .
Be quiet and depart . Thou shalt not have him .
To cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there .
County Claudio , when mean you to go to church ?
But say , my lord , it were not registered , Methinks the truth should live from age to age , As ' twere retailed to all posterity , Even to the general all - ending day .
I am amazed at your passionate words . I scorn you not . It seems that you scorn me .
Yet I beseech you , If you think fit , or that it may be done , Give me advantage of some brief discourse With Desdemona alone .
Oh , that my prayers could such affection move !
I commend my duty to your lordship .
An I do not --
Before you can say " Come " and " Go , " And breathe twice and cry " So , so ! " Each one , tripping on his toe ,
You strain too far . I rather of his absence make this use : It lends a luster and more great opinion , A larger dare , to our great enterprise Than if the Earl were here , for men must think If we without his help can make a head To push against a kingdom , with his help We shall o'erturn it topsy-turvy down . Yet all goes well , yet all our joints are whole .
My Lord of Buckingham , if my weak oratory Can from his mother win the duke of York , Anon expect him here ; but if she be obdurate To mild entreaties , God in heaven forbid We should infringe the holy privilege Of blessed sanctuary ! Not for all this land Would I be guilty of so deep a sin .
This is all .
Will ' t please you go , my lord ?
I cannot conceive you .
No , we shall ne'er win at that sport and stake down . But who comes here ? Lorenzo and his infidel ? What , and my old Venetian friend Salerio ?
It does , my boy . I trouble thee too much , but thou art willing .
I did not , gentle husband , lock thee forth .
A kinder gentleman treads not the earth . I saw Bassanio and Antonio part . Bassanio told him he would make some speed Of his return . He answered , " Do not so . Slubber not business for my sake , Bassanio But stay the very riping of the time . And for the Jew 's bond which he hath of me , Let it not enter in your mind of love . Be merry , and employ your chiefest thoughts To courtship and such fair ostents of love As shall conveniently become you there . " And even there , his eye being big with tears , Turning his face , he put his hand behind him , And with affection wondrous sensible He wrung Bassanio 's hand . And so they parted .
The arbitrament is like to be bloody . Fare you well , sir .
Good morrow , Prince ; good morrow , Claudio . We here attend you . Are you yet determined Today to marry with my brother 's daughter ?
Full half an hour .
Caesar , I never stood on ceremonies , Yet now they fright me . There is one within , Besides the things that we have heard and seen , Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch . A lioness hath whelped in the streets , And graves have yawned and yielded up their dead .
It is an honor that I dream not of .
Nor will not . Come , bring me unto my chance .
Take that , and that . If all this will not do , I 'll drown you in the malmsey butt within .
Why , thou say 'st true . It is a paltry cap , A custard - coffin , a bauble , a silken pie . I love thee well in that thou lik 'st it not .
Earth 's increase , foison plenty , Barns and garners never empty , Vines and clustering bunches growing , Plants with goodly burden bowing -- Spring come to you at the farthest In the very end of harvest . Scarcity and want shall shun you . Ceres ' blessing so is on you .
Nothing , Messala .
Sister , where thou ?
Sir , sir , be patient . For my part , I am so attired in wonder I know not what to say .
But what is the sport , monsieur , that the ladies have lost ?
I know not , sir .
So do all thoughts . They are winged .
Oh , fie , fie , fie !
Seek him out , and play the tune the while .
The devil a puritan that he is , or anything constantly , but a time - pleaser; an affectioned ass that cons state without book and utters it by great swarths ; the best persuaded of himself , so crammed , as he thinks , with excellencies , that it is his grounds of faith that all that look on him love him . And on that vice in him will my revenge find notable cause to work .
Be friends , you English fools , be friends . We have French quarrels enough , if you could tell how to reckon .
Who saw the Duke of Clarence ?
This is my treasurer . Let him speak , my lord , Upon his peril , that I have reserved To myself nothing . --Speak the truth , Seleucus .
Give me your hand . You are now within a foot Of th ' extreme verge . For all beneath the moon Would I not leap upright .
We heard it all . --My lord , do as you please . But , if you hold it fit , after the play Let his queen mother all alone entreat him To show his grief . Let her be round with him , And I 'll be placed , so please you , in the ear Of all their conference . If she find him not , To England send him or confine him where Your wisdom best shall think .
You love me not .
Let him approach . Call in my gentlewoman .
That matter is answered directly .
All lost ! To prayers , to prayers , all lost !
Master , I am here entered in bond for you .
He saves my labor by his own approach .
I will be mild and gentle in my words .
My lord , that would dishonor him !
What may the King 's whole battle reach unto ?
But I have cause to pry into this pedant . Methinks he looks as though he were in love . Yet if thy thoughts , Bianca , be so humble To cast thy wand'ring eyes on every stale , Seize thee that list ! If once I find thee ranging , Hortensio will be quit with thee by changing .
Most radiant Pyramus , most lily-white of hue , Of color like the red rose on triumphant brier , Most brisky juvenal and eke most lovely Jew , As true as truest horse that yet would never tire . I 'll meet thee , Pyramus , at Ninny 's tomb .
He is a kinsman to the Montague . Affection makes him false . He speaks not true . Some twenty of them fought in this black strife , And all those twenty could but kill one life . I beg for justice , which thou , Prince , must give . Romeo slew Tybalt . Romeo must not live .
Peace , ho !
Will you go , coz ?
Lord Mortimer and cousin Glendower , Will you sit down ? And Uncle Worcester -- A plague upon it , I have forgot the map .
Holy Franciscan Friar ! Brother , ho !
Peas and beans are as dank here as a dog , and that is the next way to give poor jades the bots . This house is turned upside down since Robin ostler died .
By this light , he changes more and more . I think he be angry indeed .
And , good my lord , so please you , let our trains March by us , that we may peruse the men We should have coped withal .
My lord , I have news to tell you . When Roscius was an actor in Rome - -
And I mine . I remember when I was in love I broke my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for coming a - night to Jane Smile . And I remember the kissing of her batler , and the cow 's dugs that her pretty chopped hands had milked . And I remember the wooing of a peascod instead of her , from whom I took two cods and , giving her them again , said with weeping tears , " Wear these for my sake . " We that are true lovers run into strange capers . But as all is mortal in nature , so is all nature in love mortal in folly .
And I say the earth was not of my mind , If you suppose as fearing you it shook .
" M.O.A.I. doth sway my life . " Nay , but first , let me see , let me see , let me see .
Content yourself . God knows I loved my niece , And she is dead , slandered to death by villains That dare as well answer a man indeed As I dare take a serpent by the tongue . -- Boys , apes , braggarts , jacks , milksops !
Why , you were with him , were you not ?
Not honestly , my lord , but so covertly that no dishonesty shall appear in me .
To Adriana . That is where we dined , Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband . She is too big , I hope , for me to compass . Thither I must , although against my will , For servants must their masters ' minds fulfill .
The star is fall'n .
Why , Dromio ?
Shall I hear more , or shall I speak at this ?
A rendezvous , a home to fly unto , If that the devil and mischance look big Upon the maidenhead of our affairs .
Such as she says my lord did say I was .
I would play Lord Pandarus of Phrygia , sir , to bring a Cressida to this Troilus .
You must forsake this room and go with us . Your power and your command is taken off And Cassio rules in Cyprus . For this slave , If there be any cunning cruelty That can torment him much and hold him long , It shall be his . You shall close prisoner rest Till that the nature of your fault be known To the Venetian state . --Come , bring him away .
What ? what ?
But soft ! What light through yonder window breaks ? It is the east , and Juliet is the sun . Arise , fair sun , and kill the envious moon , Who is already sick and pale with grief , That thou , her maid , art far more fair than she . Be not her maid since she is envious . Her vestal livery is but sick and green , And none but fools do wear it . Cast it off ! It is my lady . Oh , it is my love . Oh , that she knew she were ! She speaks , yet she says nothing . What of that ? Her eye discourses . I will answer it . -- I am too bold . ' Tis not to me she speaks . Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven , Having some business , do entreat her eyes To twinkle in their spheres till they return . What if her eyes were there , they in her head ? The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars As daylight doth a lamp . Her eye in heaven Would through the airy region stream so bright That birds would sing and think it were not night . See how she leans her cheek upon her hand . Oh , that I were a glove upon that hand That I might touch that cheek !
Who knows not he is dead ! Who knows he is ?
Gentle madam , no .
Let me endure your wrath , if ' t be not so . Within this three mile may you see it coming ; I say , a moving grove .
We 'll hear the will . Read it , Mark Antony !
He kills her in her own humor .
Well , you must now speak Sir John Falstaff fair , Which swims against your stream of quality .
Well , sir , learn to jest in good time . There 's a time for all things .
I hear my father coming . Pardon me . In cunning I must draw my sword upon you . Draw . Seem to defend yourself . Now quit you well . -- Yield ! Come before my father . Light , ho ! Here ! Fly , brother , fly . Torches , torches ! So , farewell .
I do not well understand that . Will you play upon this pipe ?
Fetch drier logs . Call Peter . He will show thee where they are .
If he do not dote on her upon this , I will never trust my expectation .
My lord would speak . My duty hushes me .
Thy husband .
Must there no more be done ?
Sweet flower , with flowers thy bridal bed I strew -- O woe ! Thy canopy is dust and stones -- Which with sweet water nightly I will dew . Or , wanting that , with tears distilled by moans , The obsequies that I for thee will keep Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep .
Why , then is my pump well flowered .
Come , come . You know I gave it you even now . Either send the chain , or send me by some token .
I did not think Master Silence had been a man of this mettle .
Come , come , no longer will I be a fool , To put the finger in the eye and weep Whilst man and master laugh my woes to scorn . Come , sir , to dinner . --Dromio , keep the gate . -- Husband , I 'll dine above with you today , And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks . Sirrah , if any ask you for your master , Say he dines forth , and let no creature enter . -- Come , sister . --Dromio , play the porter well .
Chop off his head . Something we will determine . And look when I am king , claim thou of me The earldom of Hereford , and all the moveables Whereof the king my brother was possessed .
Here is the place , my lord . Good my lord , enter . The tyranny of the open night 's too rough For nature to endure .
Hold you content . What , man ! I know them , yea , And what they weigh , even to the utmost scruple -- Scrambling , outfacing , fashion - monging boys , That lie and cog and flout , deprave and slander , Go anticly and show outward hideousness , And speak off half a dozen dang'rous words How they might hurt their enemies , if they durst , And this is all .
I am glad to see you well , good Master Robert Shallow . -- Master Sure - card , as I think ?
This feather stirs . She lives . If it be so , It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows That ever I have felt .
The queen your mother , in most great affliction of spirit , hath sent me to you .
Prithee , tell him so much the rent of his land comes to . He will not believe a fool .
Here 's more news .
I never did repent for doing good , Nor shall not now ; for in companions That do converse and waste the time together Whose souls do bear an equal yoke of love , There must be needs a like proportion Of lineaments , of manners , and of spirit , Which makes me think that this Antonio , Being the bosom lover of my lord , Must needs be like my lord . If it be so , How little is the cost I have bestowed In purchasing the semblance of my soul From out the state of hellish cruelty ! This comes too near the praising of myself . Therefore no more of it . Hear other things . Lorenzo , I commit into your hands The husbandry and manage of my house Until my lord 's return .
My Lord Bassanio , since you have found Antonio , We two will leave you . But at dinnertime I pray you have in mind where we must meet .
How long is that since ?
He that has the two fair daughters -- is ' t he you mean ?
How dost thou mean a " fat marriage " ?
I will go seek him . --Cassio , walk hereabout . If I do find him fit , I 'll move your suit And seek to effect it to my uttermost .
Come , Kate , we 'll to bed . We three are married , but you two are sped . ' Twas I won the wager , though you hit the white , And , being a winner , God give you good night !
First kiss me , Kate , and we will .
Well , sir , then ' twill be dry .
Good ev'n , Audrey .
Master Malvolio ?
Fair Beatrice , I thank you for your pains .
Anon .
This shall determine that .
Your worth is very dear in my regard . I take it your own business calls on you And you embrace th ' occasion to depart .
The sound is going away . Let 's follow it , and after do our work .
Nay , patience , or we break the sinews of our plot .
I never thought to hear you speak again .
So he does indeed .
That would I , were I of all kingdoms king .
Now Lord be thanked for my good amends !
Which else were shame , that then necessity Will call discreet proceeding .
Come , sir , I will not let you go . Come , my young soldier , put up your iron . You are well fleshed . Come on .
Health and fair greeting from our general , The Prince Lord John and Duke of Lancaster .
Stop in your wind , sir . Tell me this , I pray : Where have you left the money that I gave you ?
Ay , my good lord .
Thou wast a pretty fellow when thou hadst no need to care for her frowning . Now thou art an O without a figure . I am better than thou art now . I am a fool . Thou art nothing . Yes , forsooth , I will hold my tongue . So your face bids me , though you say nothing . Mum , mum , He that keeps nor crust nor crumb , Weary of all , shall want some . That 's a shelled peascod .
Good father , tell her that she and my aunt Percy Shall follow in your conduct speedily .
How now , what 's the matter ? My old friend Grumio and my good friend Petruchio ? How do you all at Verona ?
Caesar , ' tis his schoolmaster -- An argument that he is plucked , when hither He sends so poor a pinion of his wing , Which had superfluous kings for messengers Not many moons gone by .
My lord , you shall o'errule my mind for once . -- Come on , Lord Hastings , will you go with me ?
Good , good , the justice of it pleases ! Very good !
Be choked with such another emphasis ! Say , " the brave Antony . "
Francis !
A friend .
He was in the right , and so indeed it is .
I do not care . I 'll give thrice so much land To any well-deserving friend ; But in the way of bargain , mark you me , I 'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair . Are the indentures drawn ? Shall we be gone ?
Is it no more but this -- a tardiness in nature Which often leaves the history unspoke That it intends to do?- -My lord of Burgundy , What say you to the lady ? Love 's not love When it is mingled with regards that stands Aloof from th ' entire point . Will you have her ? She is herself a dowry .
And false .
Indeed , Sir John , you said so .
No , sir , the worse .
Peace , and be still .
There is more difference between thy flesh and hers than between jet and ivory , more between your bloods than there is between red wine and rhenish . But tell us , do you hear whether Antonio have had any loss at sea or no ?
No , but she let it drop by negligence And , to th ' advantage , I being here , took ' t up . Look , here it is .
Look , with what courteous action It waves you to a more removed ground . But do not go with it .
Why , yet he doth deny his prisoners , But with proviso and exception That we at our own charge shall ransom straight His brother - in - law , the foolish Mortimer , Who , on my soul , hath willfully betrayed The lives of those that he did lead to fight Against that great magician , damned Glendower , Whose daughter , as we hear , the Earl of March Hath lately married . Shall our coffers then Be emptied to redeem a traitor home ? Shall we buy treason and indent with fears When they have lost and forfeited themselves ? No , on the barren mountains let him starve , For I shall never hold that man my friend Whose tongue shall ask me for one penny cost To ransom home revolted Mortimer .
By heaven , my soul is purged from grudging hate , And with my hand I seal my true heart 's love .
Trinculo , run into no further danger . Interrupt the monster one word further , and , by this hand , I 'll turn my mercy out o ' doors and make a stockfish of thee .
Cassio did top her , ask thy husband else . Oh , I were damned beneath all depth in hell , But that I did proceed upon just grounds To this extremity . Thy husband knew it all .
Alas , that love , so gentle in his view , Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof !
Well , come again tomorrow . Fare thee well . A fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell .
A dear happiness to women . They would else have been troubled with a pernicious suitor . I thank God and my cold blood I am of your humor for that . I had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man swear he loves me .
Yet is this no charm for the toothache . --Old Signior , walk aside with me . I have studied eight or nine wise words to speak to you , which these hobbyhorses must not hear .
What means that bloody knife ?
No , my lord .
What say the augurers ?
Thou shalt be free As mountain winds . But then exactly do All points of my command .
What ceremony else ?
What said he when he came unto himself ?
My lord ?
Methinks it is like a weasel .
No , sir . But you have that in your countenance which I would fain call master .
I see she 's like to have neither cap nor gown .
Ay , I do .
Upon the stroke of four .
Out , you rogue ! Shall I be your ostler ?
Villains !
This is the man . Do thy office .
By Juno , I swear " Ay . "
Last thing he did , dear Queen , He kissed -- the last of many doubled kisses -- This orient pearl .
Catesby .
How now , Bardolph ?
He that has a house to put 's head in has a good headpiece . The codpiece that will house
Sleepest or wakest thou , jolly shepherd ? Thy sheep be in the corn . And for one blast of thy minikin mouth , Thy sheep shall take no harm . Purr ! The cat is gray .
So I am -- to let him live .
It 's true , good lieutenant .
Nay , how will you do for a husband ?
How now , Grumio ?
Sad , lady ! I could be sad . This does make some obstruction in the blood , this cross - gartering , but what of that ? If it please the eye of one , it is with me as the very true sonnet is , " Please one , and please all . "
Nay , yet be wise , yet we see nothing done , She may be honest yet . Tell me but this , Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief Spotted with strawberries in your wife 's hand ?
I prithee , vent thy folly somewhere else . Thou know 'st not me .
Well , I 'll set you forth .
And here is my speech . Stand aside , nobility .
O bitter consequence That Edward still should live " true noble prince " ! Cousin , thou wast not wont to be so dull . Shall I be plain ? I wish the bastards dead , And I would have it suddenly performed . What sayest thou now ? Speak suddenly . Be brief .
But he loves Caesar best ; yet he loves Antony . Hoo ! Hearts , tongues , figures , scribes , bards , poets , cannot Think , speak , cast , write , sing , number -- hoo ! -- His love to Antony . But as for Caesar , Kneel down , kneel down , and wonder .
Hang thou there upon the tomb , Praising her when I am dumb . Now , music , sound , and sing your solemn hymn . Pardon , goddess of the night , Those that slew thy virgin knight , For the which with songs of woe Round about her tomb they go . Midnight , assist our moan . Help us to sigh and groan Heavily , heavily . Graves , yawn and yield your dead , Till death be uttered , Heavily , heavily .
Come , go along and see the truth hereof , For our first merriment hath made thee jealous .
Well ta'en , and like a buzzard .
Will you encounter the house ? My niece is desirous you should enter , if your trade be to her .
Relent ? No. ' Tis cowardly and womanish .
I rather think You have not sought her help , of whose soft grace For the like loss I have her sovereign aid , And rest myself content .
Well , to our work alive . What do you think Of marching to Philippi presently ?
By this heavenly ground I tread on , I must be fain to pawn both my plate and the tapestry of my dining chambers .
Switch and spurs , switch and spurs , or I 'll cry a match .
O madam , madam , madam !
O Father Abram , what these Christians are , Whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect The thoughts of others ! --Pray you , tell me this : If he should break his day , what should I gain By the exaction of the forfeiture ? A pound of man 's flesh taken from a man Is not so estimable , profitable neither , As flesh of muttons , beefs , or goats . I say , To buy his favor I extend this friendship . If he will take it , so . If not , adieu . And for my love I pray you wrong me not .
What 's your name , sir ? Of what condition are you , and of what place , I pray ?
And my poor fool is hanged . --No , no , no life ? Why should a dog , a horse , a rat have life , And thou no breath at all ? Oh , thou'lt come no more , Never , never , never , never , never . -- Pray you , undo this button . Thank you , sir . Do you see this ? Look on her . Look , her lips . Look there , look there . O , O , O , O .
I must be married to my brother 's daughter , Or else my kingdom stands on brittle glass . Murder her brothers , and then marry her -- Uncertain way of gain . But I am in So far in blood that sin will pluck on sin . Tear - falling pity dwells not in this eye .
Beshrew your heart , Fair daughter , you do draw my spirits from me With new lamenting ancient oversights . But I must go and meet with danger there , Or it will seek me in another place And find me worse provided .
Come on your ways . Open your mouth . Here is that which will give language to you , cat . Open your mouth . This will shake your shaking , I can tell you , and that soundly . You cannot tell who 's your friend . Open your chaps again .
Virtue is no hornmaker , and my Rosalind is virtuous .
Her tongue will not obey her heart , nor can Her heart inform her tongue -- the swan 's - down feather That stands upon the swell at the full of tide And neither way inclines .
In faith , I will . --Let me peruse this face . Mercutio 's kinsman , noble County Paris . What said my man , when my betossed soul Did not attend him as we rode ? I think He told me Paris should have married Juliet . Said he not so ? Or did I dream it so ? Or am I mad , hearing him talk of Juliet , To think it was so?- -O , give me thy hand , One writ with me in sour misfortune 's book . I 'll bury thee in a triumphant grave .
How now , masters ?
What employment have we here ?
Where shall we meet i ' th ' morning ?
Marry , he trots hard with a young maid between the contract of her marriage and the day it is solemnized . If the interim be but a se'nnight , time 's pace is so hard that it seems the length of seven year .
By my troth , he 'll yield the crow a pudding one of these days . The king has killed his heart . Good husband , come home presently .
I thank thee . Thou shalt not lose by it .
Will you be married , motley ?
Let me see . Alas , poor Yorick ! I knew him , Horatio , a fellow of infinite jest , of most excellent fancy . He hath borne me on his back a thousand times , and now , how abhorred in my imagination it is ! My gorge rises at it . Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know not how oft . --Where be your gibes now ? Your gambols ? Your songs ? Your flashes of merriment that were wont to set the table on a roar ? Not one now to mock your own grinning ? Quite chapfallen ? Now get you to my lady 's chamber and tell her , let her paint an inch thick , to this favor she must come . Make her laugh at that . --Prithee , Horatio , tell me one thing .
" So-so " is good , very good , very excellent good . And yet it is not : it is but so - so . Art thou wise ?
Art thou indeed ?
We shall , my lord .
And ever will -- though he do shake me off To beggarly divorcement -- love him dearly , Comfort forswear me ! Unkindness may do much , And his unkindness may defeat my life , But never taint my love . I cannot say " whore , " It does abhor me now I speak the word . To do the act that might the addition earn Not the world 's mass of vanity could make me .
Before God , and in my mind , very wise .
That 's as much as to say , such a case as yours constrains a man to bow in the hams .
" Ninus ' tomb , " man . Why , you must not speak that yet . That you answer to Pyramus . You speak all your part at once , cues and all . --Pyramus , enter . Your cue is past . It is " never tire . "
Richard of York , how fares our loving brother ?
No matter . Get thee gone , And hire those horses . I 'll be with thee straight .
Where is the fellow ?
Men of all sorts take a pride to gird at me . The brain of this foolish - compounded clay , man , is not able to invent anything that tends to laughter more than I invent , or is invented on me . I am not only witty in myself , but the cause that wit is in other men . I do here walk before thee like a sow that hath overwhelmed all her litter but one . If the Prince put thee into my service for any other reason than to set me off , why then I have no judgment . Thou whoreson mandrake , thou art fitter to be worn in my cap than to wait at my heels . I was never manned with an agate till now , but I will inset you neither in gold nor silver , but in vile apparel , and send you back again to your master for a jewel . The juvenal , the Prince your master , whose chin is not yet fledge --I will sooner have a beard grow in the palm of my hand than he shall get one off his cheek , and yet he will not stick to say his face is a face royal . God may finish it when He will . ' Tis not a hair amiss yet . He may keep it still at a face royal , for a barber shall never earn sixpence out of it , and yet he 'll be crowing as if he had writ man ever since his father was a bachelor . He may keep his own grace , but he 's almost out of
There , take it , Prince . And if my form lie there Then I am yours .
By my troth , well met . Come , sit , sit , and a song .
Well be with you , gentlemen .
Why not by th ' hand , sir ? How have I offended ? All' s not offense that indiscretion finds And dotage terms so .
' Tis to be doubted , madam .
What , art thou come?- -On , gentlemen , away ! Our masquing mates by this time for us stay .
What sayst thou ?
Not so young , sir , to love a woman for singing , nor so old to dote on her for anything . I have years on my back forty - eight .
O bloody Richard ! Miserable England , I prophesy the fearfull 'st time to thee That ever wretched age hath looked upon . -- Come , lead me to the block . Bear him my head . They smile at me that shortly shall be dead .
No , my good lord . Therefore mistrust me not .
for what ? For tearing a poor whore 's ruff in a bawdy house ? He a captain ! Hang him , rogue . He lives upon mouldy stewed prunes and dried cakes . A captain ? God 's light , these villains will make the word as odious as the word " occupy , " which was an excellent good word before it was ill sorted . Therefore captains had need look to ' t .
If you refuse it , as in love and zeal Loath to depose the child , your brother 's son -- As well we know your tenderness of heart And gentle , kind , effeminate remorse , Which we have noted in you to your kindred And equally indeed to all estates -- Yet know whe'er you accept our suit or no , Your brother 's son shall never reign our king , But we will plant some other in the throne , To the disgrace and downfall of your house . And in this resolution here we leave you . -- Come , citizens . Zounds , I 'll entreat no more .
" Le foot " et " de count . " O Seigneur Dieu ! Ils sont mots de son mauvais , corruptible , gros , et impudique , et non pour les dames d' honneur d' user . Je ne voudrais prononcer ces mots devant les seigneurs de France pour tout le monde . Foh ! " Le foot " et " le count " ! Neanmoins , je reciterai une autre fois ma lecon ensemble : " d' hand , de fingre , de nails , d' arme , d' elbow , de nick , de sin , de foot , le count . "
A man , as you are .
He 's gone into Smithfield to buy your Worship a horse .
Why , so it would have done At the same season if your mother 's cat Had but kittened , though yourself had never been born .
Very well , madam .
Ah , who shall hinder me to wail and weep , To chide my fortune and torment myself ? I 'll join with black despair against my soul And to myself become an enemy .
Away !
The countess Richmond , good my lord of Derby , To your good prayer will scarcely say amen . Yet , Derby , notwithstanding she 's your wife And loves not me , be you , good lord , assured I hate not you for her proud arrogance .
Nothing , my lord , or if --I know not what .
Lorenzo and Salerio , welcome hither , If that the youth of my new interest here Have power to bid you welcome . By your leave , I bid my very friends and countrymen , Sweet Portia , welcome .
' Tis no such matter . Then you do not love me ?
Sir , have pity , I 'll be his surety .
Marry , sir , sometimes he is a kind of puritan .
She 's a most exquisite lady .
Good night , Penthesilea .
What is it she does now ? Look , how she rubs her hands .
In thy foul throat thou liest . Queen Margaret saw Thy murd'rous falchion smoking in his blood , The which thou once didst bend against her breast , But that thy brothers beat aside the point .
Here .
Indeed he hath played on his prologue like a child on a recorder -- a sound , but not in government .
Beat him enough . After a little time , I 'll beat him too .
Great Caesar --
" With a trunk sleeve -- "
What say you , uncle ?
What say you ? Can you love the gentleman ? This night you shall behold him at our feast . Read o'er the volume of young Paris ' face And find delight writ there with beauty 's pen . Examine every married lineament And see how one another lends content , And what obscured in this fair volume lies Find written in the margin of his eyes . This precious book of love , this unbound lover , To beautify him only lacks a cover . The fish lives in the sea , and ' tis much pride For fair without the fair within to hide . That book in many 's eyes doth share the glory That in gold clasps locks in the golden story . So shall you share all that he doth possess By having him , making yourself no less .
Enough of this . I pray thee , hold thy peace .
But he , poor man , by your first order died , And that a winged Mercury did bear . Some tardy cripple bear the countermand , That came too lag to see him buried . God grant that some , less noble and less loyal , Nearer in bloody thoughts , and not in blood , Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did , And yet go current from suspicion .
Lady , you come hither to be married to this count ?
Marry and will , my lord , with all my heart .
Come on , i ' God 's name , once more toward our father 's . Good Lord , how bright and goodly shines the moon !
I think she 'll sooner prove a soldier . Iron may hold with her , but never lutes .
I see their knavery : this is to make an ass of me , to fright me if they could . But I will not stir from this place , do what they can . I will walk up and down here and I will sing , that they shall hear I am not afraid . The ouzel cock , so black of hue With orange - tawny bill , The throstle with his note so true , The wren with little quill --
It is entered .
If you can , your reason ?
Speak to me home . Mince not the general tongue . Name Cleopatra as she is called in Rome . Rail thou in Fulvia 's phrase , and taunt my faults With such full license as both truth and malice Have power to utter . Oh , then we bring forth weeds When our quick minds lie still , and our ills told us Is as our earing .
By heaven , I rather would have been his hangman .
Set on , and leave no ceremony out .
Swoons rather , for so bad a prayer as his Was never yet for sleep .
Ay , you did wish that I would make her turn . Sir , she can turn , and turn , and yet go on , And turn again . And she can weep , sir , weep . And she 's obedient , as you say , obedient , Very obedient . --Proceed you in your tears . -- Concerning this , sir --Oh , well - painted passion ! -- I am commanded home . --Get you away , I 'll send for you anon . --Sir , I obey the mandate And will return to Venice . --Hence , avaunt !
Fie , fie on all tired jades , on all mad masters , and all foul ways ! Was ever man so beaten ? Was ever man so ' rayed ? Was ever man so weary ? I am sent before to make a fire , and they are coming after to warm them . Now , were not I a little pot and soon hot , my very lips might freeze to my teeth , my tongue to the roof of my mouth , my heart in my belly , ere I should come by a fire to thaw me . But I with blowing the fire shall warm myself . For , considering the weather , a taller man than I will take cold . --Holla , ho ! Curtis !
How the fat rogue roared !
Well .
Thou art a strange fellow . A tailor make a man ?
You hear the learned Bellario , what he writes . And here I take it is the doctor come . -- Give me your hand . Come you from old Bellario ?
Hard - handed men that work in Athens here , Which never labored in their minds till now , And now have toiled their unbreathed memories With this same play against your nuptial .
No , precious creature . I had rather crack my sinews , break my back , Than you should such dishonor undergo While I sit lazy by .
What , is the fellow mad ?
The single and peculiar life is bound With all the strength and armor of the mind To keep itself from noyance , but much more That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest The lives of many . The cease of majesty Dies not alone , but , like a gulf , doth draw What 's near it with it . It is a massy wheel Fixed on the summit of the highest mount , To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things Are mortised and adjoined , which , when it falls , Each small annexment , petty consequence , Attends the boisterous ruin . Never alone Did the king sigh , but with a general groan .
At your choice , sir .
Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true .
O woe ! O woeful , woeful , woeful day ! Most lamentable day , most woeful day That ever , ever , I did yet behold ! O day , O day , O day , O hateful day ! Never was seen so black a day as this . O woeful day , O woeful day !
Nay , stare not , masters , it is true , indeed .
I know thou dost .
No , I think thou art not ; I think thou art quit for that . Marry , there is another indictment upon thee for suffering flesh to be eaten in thy house contrary to the law , for the which I think thou wilt howl .
Back , slave , or I will break thy pate across .
Lay thy finger thus , and let thy soul be instructed . Mark me with what violence she first loved the Moor , but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies . To love him still for prating ? Let not thy discreet heart think it . Her eye must be fed , and what delight shall she have to look on the devil ? When the blood is made dull with the act of sport , there should be a game to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite , loveliness in favor , sympathy in years , manners and beauties . All which the Moor is defective in . Now for want of these required conveniences , her delicate tenderness will find itself abused , begin to heave the gorge , disrelish and abhor the Moor . Very nature will instruct her in it and compel her to some second choice . Now sir , this granted -- as it is a most pregnant and unforced position -- who stands so eminent in the degree of this fortune as Cassio does ? A knave very voluble , no further conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil and humane seeming , for the better compassing of his salt and most hidden loose affection . Why , none , why , none ! A slipper and subtle knave , a finder of occasions that has an eye , can stamp and counterfeit advantages , though true advantage never present itself . A devilish knave . Besides , the knave is handsome , young , and hath all those requisites in him that folly and green minds look after . A pestilent complete knave , and the woman hath found him already .
I should be wise , for honesty 's a fool And loses that it works for .
Where have you this ? ' Tis false .
A very mean meaning .
These late eclipses in the sun and moon portend no good to us . Though the wisdom of nature can reason it thus and thus , yet nature finds itself scourged by the sequent effects . Love cools , friendship falls off , brothers divide , in cities
All ready . And therefore , I pray thee , news .
It is not so expressed , but what of that ? ' Twere good you do so much for charity .
You 'll pay me the eight shillings I won of you at betting ?
I think so too . But you shall find the band that seems to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of their amity . Octavia is of a holy , cold , and still conversation .
It shall be seven ere I go to horse . Look what I speak , or do , or think to do , You are still crossing it . Sirs , let ' t alone . I will not go today , and ere I do It shall be what o'clock I say it is .
By cock and pie , sir , you shall not away tonight . --What , Davy , I say !
O , Sir John , do you remember since we lay all night in the windmill in Saint George 's Field ?
Three thousand ducats for three months , and Antonio bound .
Sir ?
Lest it make you choleric and purchase me another dry basting .
Oh , God ' i ' good e' en .
My lord , I shall reply amazedly , Half sleep , half waking . But as yet , I swear , I cannot truly say how I came here . But as I think -- for truly would I speak , And now do I bethink me , so it is -- I came with Hermia hither . Our intent Was to be gone from Athens , where we might , Without the peril of the Athenian law --
What think 'st thou then of Stanley ? Will not he ?
Then never trust me if I be afeard .
Do not desire to see this letter .
No , no , they do but jest . Poison in jest . No offense i ' th ' world .
Though I could 'scape shot - free at London , I fear the shot here . Here 's no scoring but upon the pate . --Soft , who are you ? Sir Walter Blunt . There 's honor for you . Here 's no vanity . I am as hot as molten lead , and as heavy too . God keep lead out of me ; I need no more weight than mine own bowels . I have led my ragamuffins where they are peppered . There 's not three of my hundred and fifty left alive , and they are for the town 's end , to beg during life . But who comes here ?
There lies that Tybalt .
It is not very strange . For my uncle is King of Denmark , and those that would make mouths at him while my father lived give twenty , forty , fifty , a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little . ' Sblood , there is something in this more than natural , if philosophy could find it out .
Come , Sir John , which four will you have ?
My brother and thy uncle , called Antonio -- I pray thee , mark me ( that a brother should Be so perfidious ! ) -- he whom next thyself Of all the world I loved and to him put The manage of my state , as at that time Through all the signories it was the first , And Prospero the prime duke , being so reputed In dignity , and for the liberal arts Without a parallel . Those being all my study , The government I cast upon my brother And to my state grew stranger , being transported And rapt in secret studies . Thy false uncle -- Dost thou attend me ?
What villain touched his body , that did stab , And not for justice ? What , shall one of us That struck the foremost man of all this world But for supporting robbers , shall we now Contaminate our fingers with base bribes , And sell the mighty space of our large honors For so much trash as may be grasped thus ? I had rather be a dog and bay the moon Than such a Roman .
And how do you ?
Therefore lay bare your bosom .
Who ? That Petruchio came ?
Alas , he gets nothing by that . In our last conflict four of his five wits went halting off , and now is the whole man governed with one , so that if he have wit enough to keep himself warm , let him bear it for a difference between himself and his horse , for it is all the wealth that he hath left to be known a reasonable creature . Who is his companion now ? He hath every month a new sworn brother .
You English princes all , I do salute you .
Where , my lord ?
I am not valiant neither , But ever puny whipster gets my sword . But why should honor outlive honesty ? Let it go all .
Conceives by me ? How likes Hortensio that ?
Still you keep o ' the windy side of the law . Good .
There are some shrewd contents in yond same paper That steals the color from Bassanio 's cheek . Some dear friend dead , else nothing in the world Could turn so much the constitution Of any constant man . What , worse and worse?- - With leave , Bassanio , I am half yourself , And I must freely have the half of anything That this same paper brings you .
And now , Laertes , what 's the news with you ? You told us of some suit . What is ' t , Laertes ? You cannot speak of reason to the Dane And lose your voice . What wouldst thou beg , Laertes , That shall not be my offer , not thy asking ? The head is not more native to the heart , The hand more instrumental to the mouth , Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father . What wouldst thou have , Laertes ?
Look I so pale , Lord Dorset , as the rest ?
Is ' t not possible to understand in another tongue ? You will do ' t , sir , really .
I pray you , sirs , lie in my tent and sleep . It may be I shall raise you by and by On business to my brother Cassius .
My name is Thidias .
I dare assure you , sir , ' tis almost two , And ' twill be supper time ere you come there .
Why , my good lord , you need not fear . There is Douglas and Lord Mortimer .
No. I will resist such entertainment till Mine enemy has more power .
Pray you , mark . White his shroud as the mountain snow --
Why , wherefore ask you this ?
Come , good fellow , put thine iron on . If fortune be not ours today , it is Because we brave her . Come .
Am I not an inch of fortune better than she ?
In nature 's infinite book of secrecy A little I can read .
Marry , sir , they have committed false report ; moreover , they have spoken untruths ; secondarily , they are slanders ; sixth and lastly , they have belied a lady ; thirdly , they have verified unjust things ; and , to conclude , they are lying knaves .
Come , thou monarch of the vine , Plumpy Bacchus with pink eyne ! In thy vats our cares be drowned , With thy grapes our hairs be crowned .
Go fetch them hither . If they deny to come , Swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands . Away , I say , and bring them hither straight .
Mark it , nuncle . Have more than thou showest , Speak less than thou knowest , Lend less than thou owest , Ride more than thou goest , Learn more than thou trowest , Set less than thou throwest , Leave thy drink and thy whore And keep in - a - door , And thou shalt have more Than two tens to a score .
The same Sir John , the very same . I see him break Scoggin 's head at the court gate , when he was a crack not thus high ; and the very same day did I fight with one Sampson Stockfish , a fruiterer , behind Grey 's Inn . Jesu , Jesu , the mad days that I have spent ! And to see how many of my old acquaintance are dead .
This is one Lucianus , nephew to the king .
Hath any man seen him at the barber 's ?
Your honor is most welcome .
Now , afore God , I am so vexed that every part about me quivers . Scurvy knave ! Pray you , sir , a word . And as I told you , my young lady bid me inquire you out . What she bade me say , I will keep to myself . But first let me tell ye , if ye should lead her into a fool 's paradise , as they say , it were a very gross kind of behavior , as they say . For the gentlewoman is young , and therefore , if you should deal double with her , truly it were an ill thing to be offered to any gentlewoman , and very weak dealing .
Why , Enobarbus , When Antony found Julius Caesar dead , He cried almost to roaring , and he wept When at Philippi he found Brutus slain .
Most mighty Caesar , let me know some cause , Lest I be laughed at when I tell them so .
There is no way but this , Sir Andrew .
I prithee , good Grumio , tell me , how goes the world ?
Dispute it like a man .
We shall find a time , Audrey . Patience , gentle Audrey .
And you too , sir .
We have been up and down to seek thee , for we are high - proof melancholy and would fain have it beaten away . Wilt thou use thy wit ?
You mistake , sir . I am sure no man hath any quarrel to me . My remembrance is very free and clear from any image of offense done to any man .
" Sconce " call you it ? So you would leave battering , I had rather have it a " head . " An you use these blows long , I must get a sconce for my head and ensconce it too , or else I shall seek my wit in my shoulders . But I pray , sir , why am I beaten ?
They know that do accuse me . I know none . If I know more of any man alive Than that which maiden modesty doth warrant , Let all my sins lack mercy ! --O my father , Prove you that any man with me conversed At hours unmeet , or that I yesternight Maintained the change of words with any creature , Refuse me , hate me , torture me to death !
Round about the cauldron go , In the poisoned entrails throw . Toad , that under cold stone Days and nights has thirty-one Sweltered venom sleeping got , Boil thou first i ' th ' charmed pot .
I prithee , tell me , doth he keep his bed ?
My plenteous joys , Wanton in fullness , seek to hide themselves In drops of sorrow . Sons , kinsmen , thanes , And you whose places are the nearest , know We will establish our estate upon Our eldest , Malcolm , whom we name hereafter The prince of Cumberland ; which honor must Not unaccompanied invest him only , But signs of nobleness , like stars , shall shine On all deservers . From hence to Inverness , And bind us further to you .
I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot to Palestine for a touch of his nether lip .
By your most gracious pardon , I sing but after you .
There 's no more faith in thee than in a stewed prune , nor no more truth in thee than in a drawn fox , and for womanhood , Maid Marian may be the deputy 's wife of the ward to thee . Go , you thing , go .
-- odors savors sweet , So hath thy breath , my dearest Thisbe dear . And by and by I will to thee appear . But hark , a voice ! Stay thou but here awhile ,
A touch , a touch , I do confess ' t .
What , has this thing appeared again tonight ?
Pox on ' t ! I 'll not meddle with him .
This wins him , liver and all .
I pray you , what is he ?
And hath given countenance to his speech , my lord , With almost all the holy vows of heaven .
Gentlemen and friends , I thank you for you I know you think to dine with me today And have prepared great store of wedding cheer , But so it is , my haste doth call me hence , And therefore here I mean to take my leave .
The one , to save the money that he spends in tiring ; the other , that at dinner they should not drop in his porridge .
Come , sir , I pray you , go .
This falls out better than I could devise . But hast thou yet latched the Athenian 's eyes With the love juice , as I did bid thee do ?
If thou wilt weep my fortunes , take my eyes . I know thee well enough . Thy name is Gloucester . Thou must be patient . We came crying hither . Thou know 'st the first time that we smell the air We wawl and cry . I will preach to thee . Mark me .
Vanish , or I shall give thee thy deserving , And blemish Caesar 's triumph . Let him take thee And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians ! Follow his chariot , like the greatest spot Of all thy sex . Most monsterlike be shown For poor 'st diminutives , for dolts , and let Patient Octavia plow thy visage up With her prepared nails !
Sans fable , she herself reviled you there .
Alas , poor rogue , I think indeed she loves me .
Good Mistress Accost , I desire better acquaintance .
They of those marches , gracious sovereign , Shall be a wall sufficient to defend Our inland from the pilfering borderers .
There 's for thy pains .
Good morrow , Catesby . You are early stirring . What news , what news in this our tott'ring state ?
Who calls so loud ?
Sir , by your patience : if I heard you rightly , The duke hath put on a religious life And thrown into neglect the pompous court .
Is it good e' en ?
What , sir , not yet at rest ? The king 's a - bed . He hath been in unusual pleasure , and Sent forth great largess to your offices . This diamond he greets your wife withal , By the name of most kind hostess , and shut up In measureless content .
No , that 's certain . I am not a double man . But if I be not Jack Falstaff , then am I a jack . There is Percy . If your father will do me any honor , so; if not , let him kill the next Percy himself . I look to be either earl or duke , I can assure you .
Hie you , Messala , And I will seek for Pindarus the while .
I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me . Lend me thy handkerchief .
Si fortune me tormenta , spero me contenta .
Tut , I can counterfeit the deep tragedian , Speak , and look back , and pry on every side , Tremble and start at wagging of a straw , Intending deep suspicion . Ghastly looks Are at my service , like enforced smiles , And both are ready in their offices , At any time to grace my stratagems . But what , is Catesby gone ?
Seven of my people , with an obedient start , make out for him . I frown the while , and perchance wind up watch , or play with my -- some rich jewel . Toby approaches , curtsies there to me --
A pair of stocks , you rogue !
If it be so , Laertes -- As how should it be so ? How otherwise?- - Will you be ruled by me ?
Thanks for that . There the grown serpent lies . The worm that 's fled Hath nature that in time will venom breed ; No teeth for th ' present . Get thee gone . Tomorrow We 'll hear ourselves again .
Ay , a thousand times . --Peter!
By running fast .
And that well might Advise him to a caution , t ' hold what distance His wisdom can provide . Some holy angel Fly to the court of England and unfold His message ere he come , that a swift blessing May soon return to this our suffering country Under a hand accursed !
I have sent to seek him and to find the body . How dangerous is it that this man goes loose ! Yet must not we put the strong law on him . He 's loved of the distracted multitude , Who like not in their judgment , but their eyes . And where ' tis so , th ' offender 's scourge is weighed , But never the offense . To bear all smooth and even , This sudden sending him away must seem Deliberate pause . Diseases desperate grown By desperate appliance are relieved , Or not at all .
I shall in all my best obey you , madam .
Shall I say to Caesar What you require of him ? For he partly begs To be desired to give . It much would please him That of his fortunes you should make a staff To lean upon . But it would warm his spirits To hear from me you had left Antony And put yourself under his shroud , The universal landlord .
Let me not stay a jot for dinner . Go get it ready .
You can do better yet , but this is meetly .
So would not I. My love doth so approve him That even his stubbornness , his checks , his frowns -- Prithee , unpin me -- have grace and favor .
Thou art sure of me . Go , make money . I have told thee often , and I re - tell thee again and again , I hate the Moor . My cause is hearted . Thine hath no less reason . Let us be conjunctive in our revenge against him . If thou canst cuckold him , thou dost thyself a pleasure , me a sport . There are many events in the womb of time which will be delivered . Traverse , go , provide thy money . We will have more of this tomorrow . Adieu .
I am Cinna the poet . I am Cinna the poet .
Do you know me , sir ? Am I Dromio ? Am I your man ? Am I myself ?
Come , he hath hid himself among these trees , To be consorted with the humorous night . Blind is his love and best befits the dark .
If not , I 'll ne'er trust medicine .
With the earl , sir , here within .
Even he , Biondello .
What color is it of ?
You are full of pretty answers . Have you not been acquainted with goldsmiths ' wives and conned them out of rings ?
Not now , sweet Desdemona . Some other time .
And to thee .
This letter from Bellario doth commend A young and learned doctor to our court . Where is he ?
Good .
There I have another bad match ! -- a bankrupt , a prodigal who dare scarce show his head on the Rialto , a beggar that was used to come so smug upon the mart . Let him look to his bond . He was wont to call me usurer ; let him look to his bond . He was wont to lend money for a Christian courtesy ; let him look to his bond .
Sir , amen .
And supper too , although thou know 'st it not . -- Come , will you go ?
What , are you mad ? I charge you , get you home .
In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I looked on .
Only look up clear . To alter favor ever is to fear . Leave all the rest to me .
The quarrel is between our masters and us their men .
How fares my lord ?
Well met , well met , Master Antipholus . I see , sir , you have found the goldsmith now . Is that the chain you promised me today ?
It is not seen enough ; you should wear it in your cap . By my troth , I am sick .
Farewell , dear heart , since I must needs be gone .
With a good leg and a good foot , uncle , and money enough in his purse , such a man would win any woman in the world , if he could get her goodwill .
A good persuasion . Therefore , hear me , Hermia . I have a widow aunt , a dowager Of great revenue , and she hath no child . From Athens is her house remote seven leagues , And she respects me as her only son . There , gentle Hermia , may I marry thee . And to that place the sharp Athenian law Cannot pursue us . If thou lovest me then , Steal forth thy father 's house tomorrow night . And in the wood , a league without the town --
No , not till a hot January .
No doubt , my liege , if each man do his best .
That will be ere the set of sun .
The cockerel .
Why , uncle , ' tis a shame .
Say , how is that ?
Set me the stoups of wine upon that table . If Hamlet give the first or second hit Or quit in answer of the third exchange , Let all the battlements their ordnance fire ! The king shall drink to Hamlet 's better breath , And in the cup an union shall he throw Richer than that which four successive kings In Denmark 's crown have worn . Give me the cups . And let the kettle to the trumpet speak , The trumpet to the cannoneer without , The cannons to the heavens , the heavens to earth , " Now the king dunks to Hamlet . " Come , begin . -- And you , the judges , bear a wary eye .
As Shafalus to Procrus , I to you .
You ever gentle gods , take my breath from me . Let not my worser spirit tempt me again To die before you please .
Iago hath direction what to do , But notwithstanding with my personal eye Will I look to ' t .
Amen , if you love her , for the lady is very well worthy .
The better for the King of heaven that hath him .
I am in my condition A prince , Miranda --I do think , a king ; I would , not so ! -- and would no more endure This wooden slavery than to suffer The flesh - fly blow my mouth . Hear my soul speak . The very instant that I saw you did My heart fly to your service , there resides To make me slave to it , and for your sake Am I this patient log - man .
Why , true , he means to make a puppet of thee .
Fear me not .
Hic et ubique ? Then we 'll shift our ground . Come hither , gentlemen , And lay your hands again upon my sword . Swear by my sword Never to speak of this that you have heard .
O pardon me , my liege ! But for my tears , The moist impediments unto my speech , I had forestalled this dear and deep rebuke Ere you with grief had spoke and I had heard The course of it so far . There is your crown , And He that wears the crown immortally Long guard it yours . If I affect it more Than as your honor and as your renown , Let me no more from this obedience rise , Which my most inward true and duteous spirit Teacheth this prostrate and exterior bending . God witness with me , when I here came in And found no course of breath within your Majesty , How cold it struck my heart ! If I do feign , O , let me in my present wildness die
Nay , then you lie . It is the blessed sun .
But half an hour !
Swearest thou ? Ungracious boy , henceforth ne'er look on me . Thou art violently carried away from grace . There is a devil haunts thee in the likeness of an old fat man . A tun of man is thy companion . Why dost thou converse with that trunk of humors , that bolting - hutch of beastliness , that swollen parcel of dropsies , that huge bombard of sack , that stuffed cloakbag of guts , that roasted Manningtree ox with the pudding in his belly , that reverend Vice , that gray iniquity , that father ruffian , that vanity in years ? Wherein is he good , but to taste sack and drink it ? Wherein neat and cleanly but to carve a capon and eat it ? Wherein cunning but in craft ? Wherein crafty but in villany ? Wherein villanous but in all things ? Wherein worthy but in nothing ?
My duty to you both , on equal love , Great kings of France and England . That I have labored With all my wits , my pains , and strong endeavors , To bring your most imperial Majesties Unto this bar and royal interview , Your mightiness on both parts best can witness . Since , then , my office hath so far prevailed That face to face and royal eye to eye You have congreeted . Let it not disgrace me If I demand before this royal view What rub or what impediment there is Why that the naked , poor , and mangled peace , Dear nurse of arts , plenties , and joyful births , Should not in this best garden of the world , Our fertile France , put up her lovely visage ? Alas , she hath from France too long been chased , And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps , Corrupting in its own fertility . Her vine , the merry cheerer of the heart , Unpruned , dies . Her hedges , even - pleached , Like prisoners wildly overgrown with hair , Put forth disordered twigs . Her fallow leas The darnel , hemlock , and rank fumitory Doth root upon , while that the coulter rusts That should deracinate such savagery . The even mead , that erst brought sweetly forth The freckled cowslip , burnet , and green clover , Wanting the scythe , withal uncorrected , rank , Conceives by idleness , and nothing teems But hateful docks , rough thistles , kecksies , burrs , Losing both beauty and utility . And as our vineyards , fallows , meads , and hedges , Defective in their natures , grow to wildness , Even so our houses and ourselves and children Have lost , or do not learn for want of time , The sciences that should become our country , But grow like savages , as soldiers will
Not I.
Heaven will direct it .
At home , my lord .
Indeed , I should have asked thee that before .
Virtue ? A fig ! ' Tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus . Our bodies are our gardens , to the which our wills are gardeners . So that if we will plant nettles or sow lettuce , set hyssop and weed up thyme , supply it with one gender of herbs or distract it with many -- either to have it sterile with idleness , or manured with industry -- why , the power and corrigible authority of this lies in our wills . If the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality , the blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most prepost'rous conclusions . But we have reason to cool our raging motions , our carnal stings , our unbitted lusts . Whereof I take this that you call love to be a sect or scion .
Trinculo , if you trouble him any more in 's tale , by this hand , I will supplant some of your teeth .
What is it carries you away ?
What trade , thou knave ? Thou naughty knave , what trade ?
What sayest thou , bully Bottom ?
What complexion is she of ?
I hear a knocking At the south entry . Retire we to our chamber . A little water clears us of this deed . How easy is it , then ! Your constancy Hath left you unattended .
Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited to swoon when he showed me your handkercher ?
Yea , my lord .
By my troth , a good song .
Quick , quick , I pray thee . Draw the curtain straight . The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath And comes to his election presently .
By the mess , ere theise eyes of mine take themselves to slomber , ay 'll de gud service , or I 'll lig i ' th ' grund for it , ay , or go to death . And I 'll pay ' t as valorously as I may , that sall I suerly do , that is the breff and the long . Marry , I wad full fain heard some question ' tween you tway .
His absence , sir , Lays blame upon his promise . Please ' t your highness To grace us with your royal company ?
Well , do you so , let not me take him then . For if I do I 'll mar the young clerk 's pen .
Most high , most mighty , and most puissant Caesar , Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat An humble heart --
Yes , Captain , but with this acknowledgement : That God fought for us .
I pray thee , Rosalind , sweet my coz , be merry .
Why , he is the Prince 's jester , a very dull fool , only his gift is in devising impossible slanders . None but libertines delight in him , and the commendation is not in his wit but in his villainy , for he both pleases men and angers them , and then they laugh at him and beat him . I am sure he is in the fleet . I would he had boarded me .
Ay , madam . He desires to make atonement Betwixt the duke of Gloucester and your brothers , And betwixt them and my Lord Chamberlain , And sent to warn them to his royal presence .
That would I , had I kingdoms to give with her .
To be whipped ? What 's his fault ?
Why , now I see there 's mettle in thee , and even from this instant to build on thee a better opinion than ever before . Give me thy hand , Roderigo . Thou hast taken against me a most just exception , but yet I protest I have dealt most directly in thy affair .
If he do , sure he cannot weep ' t back again .
Sir , this young fellow 's mother could , whereupon she grew round - wombed , and had indeed , sir , a son for her cradle ere she had a husband for her bed . Do you smell a fault ?
Go to , go to ! Peace , peace . We must deal gently with him . Let me alone . --How do you , Malvolio ? How is ' t with you ? What , man , defy the devil ! Consider , he 's an enemy to mankind .
O , if thou wert the noblest of thy strain , Young man , thou couldst not die more honorable .
That dreamers often lie .
Now , lords , if God doth give successful end To this debate that bleedeth at our doors , We will our youth lead on to higher fields And draw no swords but what are sanctified . Our navy is addressed , our power collected , Our substitutes in absence well invested , And everything lies level to our wish . Only we want a little personal strength ; And pause us till these rebels now afoot Come underneath the yoke of government .
For mine own part , no offence to the general nor any man of quality , I hope to be saved .
Faith , nothing ; but ' has left me here behind to expound the meaning or moral of his signs and tokens .
What , drunk with choler ? stay and pause awhile . Here comes your uncle .
Oh , blood , blood , blood !
' Sblood , an arrant traitor as any 's in the universal world , or in France , or in England !
I have no exquisite reason for ' t , but I have reason good enough .
These things indeed you have articulate , Proclaimed at market crosses , read in churches , To face the garment of rebellion With some fine color that may please the eye Of fickle changelings and poor discontents , Which gape and rub the elbow at the news Of hurlyburly innovation . And never yet did insurrection want Such water colors to impaint his cause , Nor moody beggars starving for a time Of pellmell havoc and confusion .
This were kindness .
It is my soul that calls upon my name . How silver - sweet sound lovers ' tongues by night , Like softest music to attending ears !
You nymphs , called naiads of the windring brooks , With your sedged crowns and ever - harmless looks , Leave your crisp channels and on this green land Answer your summons , Juno does command .
O my good lord , Believe not all , or , if you must believe , Stomach not all . A more unhappy lady , If this division chance , ne'er stood between , Praying for both parts . The good gods will mock me presently , When I shall pray " O bless my lord and husband ! " Undo that prayer by crying out as loud " O bless my brother ! " Husband win , win brother Prays and destroys the prayer ; no midway ' Twixt these extremes at all .
A good wench , give it me .
E' en at hand , alighted by this . And therefore be not -- Cock 's passion , silence ! I hear my master .
No , sir , it is legs and thighs . Let me see the caper . ( SIR ANDREW dances ) Ha , higher ! Ha , ha , excellent !
I pray thee , mark me . I , thus neglecting worldly ends , all dedicated To closeness and the bettering of my mind With that which , but by being so retired , O ' erprized all popular rate , in my false brother Awaked an evil nature . And my trust , Like a good parent , did beget of him A falsehood in its contrary as great As my trust was , which had indeed no limit , A confidence sans bound . He being thus lorded , Not only with what my revenue yielded But what my power might else exact , like one Who having into truth , by telling of it , Made such a sinner of his memory To credit his own lie -- he did believe He was indeed the duke , out o ' th ' substitution And executing th ' outward face of royalty , With all prerogative . Hence his ambition growing -- Dost thou hear ?
No more of that . I have noted it well . Go you and tell my daughter I would speak with her .
I 'll be with you anon .
I have a reasonable good ear in music . Let 's have the tongs and the bones .
The gods do this in shame of cowardice . Caesar should be a beast without a heart If he should stay at home today for fear . No , Caesar shall not . Danger knows full well
That is another simple sin in you , to bring the ewes and the rams together and to offer to get your living by the copulation of cattle ; to be bawd to a bellwether and to betray a she - lamb of a twelvemonth to a crooked - pated old cuckoldly ram , out of all reasonable match . If thou be 'st not damned for this , the devil himself will have no shepherds . I cannot see else how thou shouldst ' scape .
Now , what news ?
Where is he ?
The tender love I bear your Grace , my lord , Makes me most forward in this princely presence To doom th ' offenders , whosoe'er they be . I say , my lord , they have deserved death .
You shall have leave .
I never saw a better - fashioned gown , More quaint , more pleasing , nor more commendable . Belike you mean to make a puppet of me .
There are two lodged together .
Sir , sir --
How is ' t , brother !
The visitor will not give him o'er so .
If this should ever happen , thou wouldst be horn - mad .
My mother . Father and mother is man and wife , man and wife is one flesh , and so , my mother . --Come , for England !
If thou hast any sound or use of voice , Speak to me .
I could marry this wench for this device .
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting
What says Lord Stanley ? Will he bring his power ?
I will speak daggers to her but use none . My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites . How in my words somever she be shent , To give them seals never , my soul , consent !
I took him sleeping -- that is finished too -- And the Athenian woman by his side , That , when he waked , of force she must be eyed .
I have it ready for thee . Here it is .
Pays homage to us -- thou mayst not coldly set Our sovereign process , which imports at full , By letters congruing to that effect , The present death of Hamlet . Do it , England , For like the hectic in my blood he rages , And thou must cure me . Till I know ' tis done , Howe'er my haps , my joys were ne'er begun .
I shall be pinched to death .
Yea , Davy . I will use him well . A friend i ' th ' court is better than a penny in purse . Use his men well , Davy , for they are arrant knaves and will backbite .
My lord ?
When the sea is . Hence ! What cares these roarers for the name of king ? To cabin , silence ! Trouble us not .
Patience perforce with willful choler meeting Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting . I will withdraw , but this intrusion shall Now seeming sweet , convert to bitterest gall .
Come , go we in procession to the village , And be it death proclaimed through our host To boast of this or take that praise from God Which is His only .
Who bare my letter , then , to Romeo ?
Masters , you ought to consider with yourselves . To bring in --God shield us ! -- a lion among ladies is a most dreadful thing . For there is not a more fearful wildfowl than your lion living . And we ought to look to ' t .
If such a one be fit to govern , speak . I am as I have spoken .
Not i ' th ' stocks , fool .
Peace , you were best .
But , like a misbehaved and sullen wench , Thou pout 'st upon thy fortune and thy love . Take heed , take heed , for such die miserable . Go , get thee to thy love , as was decreed . Ascend her chamber , hence , and comfort her . But look thou stay not till the watch be set , For then thou canst not pass to Mantua , Where thou shalt live , till we can find a time To blaze your marriage , reconcile your friends , Beg pardon of the Prince , and call thee back With twenty hundred thousand times more joy Than thou went 'st forth in lamentation . -- Go before , Nurse . Commend me to thy lady , And bid her hasten all the house to bed , Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto . Romeo is coming .
Come hither , herald . --Let the trumpet sound , -- And read out this .
Nay , I have offered all , I have no more , And she can have no more than all I have . If you like me , she shall have me and mine .
In heaven . Send hither to see . If your messenger find him not there , seek him i ' th ' other place yourself . But if indeed you find him not within this month , you shall nose him as you go up the stairs into the lobby .
Oh , I know where you are . Nay , ' tis true . There was never anything so sudden but the fight of two rams and Caesar 's thrasonical brag of " I came , saw , and overcame . " For your brother and my sister no sooner met but they looked , no sooner looked but they loved , no sooner loved but they sighed , no sooner sighed but they asked one another the reason , no sooner knew the reason but they sought the remedy ; and in these degrees have they made a pair of stairs to marriage , which they will climb incontinent , or else be incontinent before marriage . They are in the very wrath of love , and they will together . Clubs cannot part them .
This is the monkey 's own giving out . She is persuaded I will marry her , out of her own love and flattery , not out of my promise .
What warlike noise is this ?
Why , fare thee well , King . Sith thus thou wilt appear , Freedom lives hence , and banishment is here . The gods to their dear shelter take thee , maid , That justly think 'st and hast most rightly said ! And your large speeches may your deeds approve , That good effects may spring from words of love . -- Thus Kent , O princes , bids you all adieu . He 'll shape his old course in a country new .
Oh , that brave Caesar !
Methinks I do .
Know thus far forth : By accident most strange , bountiful Fortune hath mine enemies Brought to this shore . And by my prescience I find my zenith doth depend upon A most auspicious star , whose influence If now I court not but omit , my fortunes Will ever after droop . Here cease more questions .
I do .
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do , chapels had been churches and poor men 's cottages princes ' palaces . It is a good divine that follows his own instructions . I can easier teach twenty what were good to be done than be one of the twenty to follow mine own teaching . The brain may devise laws for the blood , but a hot temper leaps o'er a cold decree . Such a hare is madness the youth -- to skip o'er the meshes of good counsel the cripple . But this reasoning is not in the fashion to choose me a husband . O me , the word " choose ! " I may neither choose whom I would nor refuse whom I dislike -- so is the will of a living daughter curbed by the will of a dead father . Is it not hard , Nerissa , that I cannot choose one nor refuse none ?
My liege , your highness now may do me good .
Je pense que vous etes gentilhomme de bonne qualite .
This is the silliest stuff that ever I heard .
Alas , it is the baseness of thy fear That makes thee strangle thy propriety . Fear not , Cesario . Take thy fortunes up . Be that thou know 'st thou art , and then thou art As great as that thou fear'st .
Then is there mirth in heaven When earthly things , made even , Atone together .
O , do not slander him , for he is kind .
Gloucester , ' tis true that we are in great danger . The greater therefore should our courage be . --Good morrow , brother Bedford . God almighty , There is some soul of goodness in things evil , Would men observingly distill it out . For our bad neighbor makes us early stirrers , Which is both healthful and good husbandry . Besides , they are our outward consciences And preachers to us all , admonishing That we should dress us fairly for our end . Thus may we gather honey from the weed And make a moral of the devil himself .
Runs not this speech like iron through your blood ?
I am glad of it . A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear .
I will be with thee straight .
Ready .
What letters hast thou there ? I can but thank you .
There roared the sea , and trumpet - clangor sounds .
I will not stay tonight for all the town . Therefore away , to get our stuff aboard .
And yet my sky shall not want .
Farewell , and if my fortune be not crost , I have a father , you a daughter , lost .
My precious Queen , forbear , And give true evidence to his love which stands An honorable trial .
" Your meat doth burn , " quoth I. " My gold , " quoth he . " Will you come ? " quoth I. " My gold , " quoth he . " Where is the thousand marks I gave thee , villain ? " " The pig , " quoth I , " is burned . " " My gold , " quoth he . " My mistress , sir , " quoth I. " Hang up thy mistress ! I know not thy mistress . Out on thy mistress ! "
Why art thou not at Windsor with him , Thomas ?
Here comes the man you mean .
For this , I 'll never follow thy palled fortunes more . Who seeks and will not take when once ' tis offered Shall never find it more .
Stay , countrymen .
He needs not our mistrust , since he delivers Our offices and what we have to do To the direction just .
Look you , sad friends , The gods rebuke me , but it is tidings To wash the eyes of kings .
You have a nimble wit . I think ' twas made of Atalanta 's heels . Will you sit down with me ? And we two will rail against our mistress the world and all our misery .
Here , sweet lord , at your service .
Soldier , you must come to the king .
Worthy prince , I know ' t .
By my troth , I was seeking for a fool when I found you .
A daughter ? O heavens , that they were living both in Naples , The king and queen there ! That they were , I wish Myself were mudded in that oozy bed Where my son lies . --When did you lose your daughter ?
Oh , grace ! Oh , heaven forgive me ! Are you a man ? Have you a soul or sense ? God buy you , take mine office . O wretched fool That lov 'st to make thine honesty a vice ! O monstrous world ! Take note , take note , O world , To be direct and honest is not safe . I thank you for this profit , and from hence I 'll love no friend , sith love breeds such offence .
Alas , what is the matter ? What is the matter , husband ?
These are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i ' th ' alehouse . What miserable praise hast thou for her That 's foul and foolish ?
Honest Bardolph , welcome . If thou wantest anything and wilt not call , beshrew thy heart . -- Welcome , my little tiny thief , and welcome indeed too . I 'll drink to Master Bardolph , and to all the cabileros about London .
Woe , alas ! What , in our house ?
I prithee , shepherd , if that love or gold Can in this desert place buy entertainment , Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed . Here 's a young maid with travel much oppressed , And faints for succor .
Remember March , the ides of March remember . Did not great Julius bleed for justice ' sake ?
Oh , that your Highness knew my heart in this : I never loved my brother in my life .
I have heard it , Pompey , And am well studied for a liberal thanks Which I do owe you .
Laud be to God ! Even there my life must end . It hath been prophesied to me many years , I should not die but in Jerusalem , Which vainly I supposed the Holy Land . But bear me to that chamber ; there I 'll lie . In that Jerusalem shall Harry die .
The matter , I hope , is not great , sir , begging but a beggar . Cressida was a beggar . My lady is within , sir . I will construe to them whence you come . Who you are and what you would are out of my welkin , I might say " element , " but the word is overworn .
Why , there thou sayst . And the more pity that great folk should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves more than their even Christian . Come , my spade . There is no ancient gentleman but gardeners , ditchers , and grave - makers . They hold up Adam 's profession .
I have great comfort from this fellow . Methinks he hath no drowning mark upon him . His complexion is perfect gallows . Stand fast , good Fate , to his hanging . Make the rope of his destiny our cable , for our own doth little advantage . If he be not born to be hanged , our case is miserable .
It is a kind of history .
Follow him , friends . We 'll hear a play tomorrow . -- Dost thou hear me , old friend ? Can you play The Murder of Gonzago ?
True , I talk of dreams , Which are the children of an idle brain , Begot of nothing but vain fantasy , Which is as thin of substance as the air And more inconstant than the wind , who woos Even now the frozen bosom of the north , And , being angered , puffs away from thence , Turning his face to the dew - dropping south .
I 'll deliver all , And promise you calm seas , auspicious gales , And sail so expeditious that shall catch Your royal fleet far off . -- My Ariel , chick , That is thy charge . Then to the elements Be free , and fare thou well ! --Please you , draw near .
May not an ass know when the cart draws the horse ? Whoop , Jug ! I love thee .
The April 's in her eyes ; it is love 's spring , And these the showers to bring it on . Be cheerful .
It is the poisoned cup . It is too late .
Do you question me as an honest man should do , for my simple true judgment ? Or would you have me speak after my custom , as being a professed tyrant to their sex ?
Gracious my lord , I should report that which I say I saw , But know not how to do ' t .
To th ' syllable .
That 's no matter . The feet might bear the verses .
Peace , chewet , peace .
Then plainly know my heart 's dear love is set On the fair daughter of rich Capulet . As mine on hers , so hers is set on mine , And all combined , save what thou must combine By holy marriage . When and where and how We met , we wooed and made exchange of vow , I 'll tell thee as we pass , but this I pray : That thou consent to marry us today .
The mighty dukes , Gloucester and Buckingham .
Shame , and eternal shame , nothing but shame ! Let us die . In once more ! Back again ! And he that will not follow Bourbon now , Let him go hence , and with his cap in hand Like a base pander hold the chamber door , Whilst by a slave , no gentler than my dog , His fairest daughter is contaminate .
Now , for my life , Hortensio fears his widow .
Well , daughter , and you gentlewomen all , Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves , And when I send for you , come hither masked . The Prince and Claudio promised by this hour To visit me . --You know your office , brother . You must be father to your brother 's daughter , And give her to young Claudio .
You have broken The article of your oath , which you shall never Have tongue to charge me with .
Forget not in your speed , Antonius , To touch Calphurnia , for our elders say The barren , touched in this holy chase , Shake off their sterile curse .
It is now two o'clock . But , let me see , by ten We shall have each a hundred Englishmen .
Marry , sir , for this something that you gave me for nothing .
What , of death too , That rids our dogs of languish ?
Ay , but he will not now be pacified . Fabian can scarce hold him yonder .
An if I live until I be a man , I 'll win our ancient right in France again Or die a soldier , as I lived a king .
There is one goat for you . Will you be so good , scald knave , as eat it ?
O joyful day ! I would not take a knighthood for my fortune .
Is it not strange that desire should so many years outlive performance ?
Though to have her and death were both one thing .
Reply , reply .
At a word , I am not .
Just the contrary . The better for thy friends .
There is many complaints , Davy , against that Visor . That Visor is an arrant knave , on my knowledge .
Never .
So . -- Thus then , thou most renowned : Caesar entreats Not to consider in what case thou stand'st , Further than he is Caesar .
I think this be the most villanous house in all London road for fleas . I am stung like a tench .
Away ! Away , you trifler . Love , I love thee not . I care not for thee , Kate . This is no world To play with mammets and to tilt with lips . We must have bloody noses and cracked crowns , And pass them current too . --Gods me , my horse ! -- What say 'st thou , Kate ? What would 'st thou have with me ?
No , pray thee , let it serve for table talk . Then howsome'er thou speak 'st ' mong other things I shall digest it .
This was a venture , sir , that Jacob served for -- A thing not in his power to bring to pass But swayed and fashioned by the hand of heaven . Was this inserted to make interest good ? Or is your gold and silver ewes and rams ?
Hark ! I am called . My little spirit , see , Sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me .
Now , mistress , profit you in what you read ?
And thither will I straight to visit him . He comes upon a wish . Fortune is merry , And in this mood will give us anything .
Not in my husband 's nose .
I know him to be valiant .
Yea , that she did . But yet for all that , an if she did not hate him deadly , she would love him dearly . The old man 's daughter told us all .
But thou , ' gainst all proportion , didst bring in Wonder to wait on treason and on murder , And whatsoever cunning fiend it was That wrought upon thee so preposterously Hath got the voice in hell for excellence . All other devils that suggest by treasons Do botch and bungle up damnation With patches , colors , and with forms being fetched From glist'ring semblances of piety . But he that tempered thee bade thee stand up , Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason , Unless to dub thee with the name of traitor . If that same demon that hath gulled thee thus Should with his lion gait walk the whole world , He might return to vasty Tartar back And tell the legions " I can never win A soul so easy as that Englishman 's . " Oh , how hast thou with jealousy infected The sweetness of affiance ! Show men dutiful ? Why , so didst thou . Seem they grave and learned ? Why , so didst thou . Come they of noble family ? Why , so didst thou . Seem they religious ? Why , so didst thou . Or are they spare in diet , Free from gross passion or of mirth or anger , Constant in spirit , not swerving with the blood , Garnished and decked in modest complement , Not working with the eye without the ear , And but in purged judgment trusting neither ? Such and so finely bolted didst thou seem . And thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot To mark the full - fraught man and best endued With some suspicion . I will weep for thee , For this revolt of thine methinks is like Another fall of man . --Their faults are open . Arrest them to the answer of the law , And God acquit them of their practices .
Know you not he has ?
My Lord of Gloucester , I have too long borne Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs . By heaven , I will acquaint his majesty With those gross taunts that oft I have endured . I had rather be a country servant - maid Than a great queen with this condition , To be so baited , scorned , and stormed at .
Ay , that he was .
That by degrees we mean to look into And watch our vantage in this business . We 'll overreach the graybeard , Gremio , The narrow - prying father , Minola , The quaint musician , amorous Litio , All for my master 's sake , Lucentio .
Unhappy that I am , I cannot heave My heart into my mouth . I love your majesty According to my bond , no more nor less .
I am as like to call thee so again , To spet on thee again , to spurn thee too . If thou wilt lend this money , lend it not As to thy friends , for when did friendship take A breed for barren metal of his friend ? But lend it rather to thine enemy , Who , if he break , thou mayst with better face Exact the penalty .
The figo for thee then !
Well , ' tis not so , my Lord High Constable . But though we think it so , it is no matter . In cases of defense ' tis best to weigh The enemy more mighty than he seems . So the proportions of defense are filled , Which of a weak or niggardly projection Doth , like a miser , spoil his coat with scanting A little cloth .
Now he goes With no less presence but with much more love Than young Alcides , when he did redeem The virgin tribute paid by howling Troy To the sea monster . I stand for sacrifice . The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives , With bleared visages come forth to view The issue of th ' exploit . --Go , Hercules ! Live thou , I live . With much , much more dismay I view the fight than thou that makest the fray .
Sir , sir , sir --
Sweet , so would I. Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing . Good night , good night ! Parting is such sweet sorrow That I shall say good night till it be morrow .
I cannot think you are my son .
Look where they come . Take but good note , and you shall see in him The triple pillar of the world transformed Into a strumpet 's fool . Behold and see .
Come .
O Jesu , this is excellent sport , i ' faith !
You hear , Count Claudio ? I can be secret as a dumb man , I would have you think so , but on my allegiance -- mark you this , on my allegiance -- he is in love . With who ? Now , that is your Grace 's part . Mark how short his answer is : with Hero , Leonato 's short daughter .
You rogue , they were bound , every man of them , or I am a Jew else , an Ebrew Jew .
This health to Lepidus !
Why , we are still handling our ewes , and their fells , you know , are greasy .
Pray thee , Sir John , let it be but twenty nobles . I ' faith , I am loath to pawn my plate , so God save me , la .
And to you , gentle sir , and to you all .
When were you wont to be so full of songs , sirrah ?
Let me hire him too . --Here 's my coxcomb .
Why did you so ? Doth not the gentleman Deserve as full as fortunate a bed As ever Beatrice shall couch upon ?
Iago ? Oh , I am spoiled , undone by villains ! Give me some help .
And seemed I ever otherwise to you ?
Oh , villain that I am !
I go , I go . Look how I go , Swifter than arrow from the Tartar 's bow .
There 's no news at the court , sir , but the old news . That is , the old duke is banished by his younger brother the new duke , and three or four loving lords have put themselves into voluntary exile with him , whose lands and revenues enrich the new duke . Therefore he gives them good leave to wander .
And I can teach thee , coz , to shame the devil By telling truth . Tell truth and shame the devil . If thou have power to raise him , bring him hither , And I 'll be sworn I have power to shame him hence . O , while you live , tell truth and shame the devil !
Alack , alack !
What are these faces ?
Thou speak 'st wiser than thou art ware of .
Say ' tis not so , a province I will give thee And make thy fortunes proud . The blow thou hadst Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage , And I will boot thee with what gift beside Thy modesty can beg .
That is done , sir . They have all stomachs .
Then shall you go no further . It is the cowish terror of his spirit That dares not undertake . He 'll not feel wrongs Which tie him to an answer . Our wishes on the way May prove effects . Back , Edmund , to my brother . Hasten his musters and conduct his powers . I must change names at home , and give the distaff Into my husband 's hands . This trusty servant Shall pass between us . Ere long you are like to hear -- If you dare venture in your own behalf -- A mistress 's command . Wear this . Spare speech . Decline your head . This kiss , if it durst speak , Would stretch thy spirits up into the air . Conceive , and fare thee well .
You shall try but one fall .
Very true , sir , and I come to draw you out by the ears .
You hear how he importunes me . The chain !
Thy thoughts I cleave to . What 's thy pleasure ?
You are right , justice , and you weigh this well . Therefore still bear the balance and the sword . And I do wish your honors may increase Till you do live to see a son of mine Offend you and obey you as I did . So shall I live to speak my father 's words : " Happy am I that have a man so bold That dares do justice on my proper son ; And not less happy , having such a son That would deliver up his greatness so Into the hands of justice . " You did commit me , For which I do commit into your hand Th ' unstained sword that you have used to bear , With this remembrance : that you use the same With the like bold , just , and impartial spirit As you have done ' gainst me . There is my hand . You shall be as a father to my youth , My voice shall sound as you do prompt mine ear , And I will stoop and humble my intents To your well-practiced wise directions . -- And , princes all , believe me , I beseech you : My father is gone wild into his grave , For in his tomb lie my affections , And with his spirit sadly I survive To mock the expectation of the world , To frustrate prophecies , and to raze out Rotten opinion , who hath writ me down After my seeming . The tide of blood in me Hath proudly flowed in vanity till now . Now doth it turn and ebb back to the sea , Where it shall mingle with the state of floods And flow henceforth in formal majesty . Now call we our high court of parliament ,
Macbeth .
He is as horribly conceited of him , and pants and looks pale , as if a bear were at his heels .
My lord , my lord , I 'll prove it on his body if he dare , Despite his nice fence and his active practice , His May of youth and bloom of lustihood .
Fulvia ?
I have received a hurt . Follow me , lady . -- Turn out that eyeless villain . Throw this slave Upon the dunghill . --Regan , I bleed apace . Untimely comes this hurt . Give me your arm .
One from the Lord Stanley .
So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle Gently entwist . The female ivy so Enrings the barky fingers of the elm . Oh , how I love thee ! How I dote on thee !
I like thy wit well , in good faith . The gallows does well , but how does it well ? It does well to those that do ill .
I thank him that he cuts me from my tale , For I profess not talking . Only this : Let each man do his best . And here draw I a sword , Whose temper I intend to stain With the best blood that I can meet withal In the adventure of this perilous day . Now , Esperance ! Percy ! And set on . Sound all the lofty instruments of war , And by that music let us all embrace , For , heaven to earth , some of us never shall A second time do such a courtesy .
Prithee say true !
Then I must be thy lady . But I know When thou hast stolen away from Fairyland , And in the shape of Corin sat all day , Playing on pipes of corn and versing love To amorous Phillida . Why art thou here , Come from the farthest step of India ? But that , forsooth , the bouncing Amazon , Your buskined mistress and your warrior love , To Theseus must be wedded , and you come To give their bed joy and prosperity .
Yes , that thou didst . Didst thou see any thing ?
Thou poisonous slave , got by the devil himself Upon thy wicked dam , come forth !
Would he were fatter ! But I fear him not . Yet if my name were liable to fear , I do not know the man I should avoid So soon as that spare Cassius . He reads much . He is a great observer , and he looks Quite through the deeds of men . He loves no plays , As thou dost , Antony . He hears no music . Seldom he smiles , and smiles in such a sort As if he mocked himself and scorned his spirit That could be moved to smile at anything . Such men as he be never at heart 's ease Whiles they behold a greater than themselves , And therefore are they very dangerous . I rather tell thee what is to be feared Than what I fear , for always I am Caesar . Come on my right hand , for this ear is deaf , And tell me truly what thou think 'st of him .
" De nick . " Et le menton ?
Marry , sir , to bid my old master the Jew to sup tonight with my new master the Christian .
Ay , but you must confine yourself within the modest limits of order .
Nay , ' tis for me to be patient . I am in adversity .
May ' t please your Majesty to give us leave Freely to render what we have in charge , Or shall we sparingly show you far off The Dauphin 's meaning and our embassy ?
What , think you we are Turks or infidels ? Or that we would , against the form of law , Proceed thus rashly in the villain 's death , But that the extreme peril of the case , The peace of England and our persons ' safety Enforced us to this execution ?
From all such devils , good Lord , deliver us !
I have a journey , sir , shortly to go . My master calls me . I must not say no .
A credulous father , and a brother noble -- Whose nature is so far from doing harms That he suspects none , on whose foolish honesty My practices ride easy . I see the business . Let me , if not by birth , have lands by wit . All with me 's meet that I can fashion fit .
My sickness grows upon me .
He 's very knowing , I do perceive ' t . There 's nothing in her yet . The fellow has good judgment .
None but a holy hermit and her maid . I pray you , is my master yet returned ?
O , then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire , And not in fear of your nativity . Diseas --d nature oftentimes breaks forth In strange eruptions ; oft the teeming earth Is with a kind of colic pinched and vexed By the imprisoning of unruly wind Within her womb , which , for enlargement striving , Shakes the old beldam earth and topples down Steeples and moss - grown towers . At your birth Our grandam earth , having this distemperature , In passion shook .
Heaven make thee free of it . I follow thee . -- I am dead , Horatio . --Wretched queen , adieu ! -- You that look pale and tremble at this chance , That are but mutes or audience to this act , Had I but time ( as this fell sergeant , Death , Is strict in his arrest ) , O , I could tell you -- But let it be . --Horatio , I am dead . Thou livest . Report me and my cause aright To the unsatisfied .
This courtesy , forbid thee , shall the duke Instantly know , and of that letter too . This seems a fair deserving , and must draw me That which my father loses -- no less than all . The younger rises when the old doth fall .
Pray you , tell him I am his fortune 's vassal , and I send him The greatness he has got . I hourly learn A doctrine of obedience , and would gladly Look him i ' th ' face .
There thou prick 'st her with a thistle .
Here , uncle Exeter , fill this glove with crowns And give it to this fellow . --Keep it , fellow , And wear it for an honor in thy cap Till I do challenge it . --Give him the crowns . --And , captain , you must needs be friends with him .
What hast thou found ?
Haply your eye shall light upon some toy You have desire to purchase , and your store , I think , is not for idle markets , sir .
Tomorrow , Before the sun shall see ' s , we 'll spill the blood That has today escaped . I thank you all , For doughty - handed are you , and have fought Not as you served the cause , but as ' t had been Each man 's like mine . You have shown all Hectors . Enter the city . Clip your wives , your friends . Tell them your feats , whilst they with joyful tears Wash the congealment from your wounds and kiss The honored gashes whole .
Petruchio , go thy ways ; the field is won .
My blood hath been too cold and temperate , Unapt to stir at these indignities , And you have found me , for accordingly You tread upon my patience . But be sure I will from henceforth rather be myself , Mighty and to be feared , than my condition , Which hath been smooth as oil , soft as young down , And therefore lost that title of respect Which the proud soul ne'er pays but to the proud .
Do not say so , my lord .
Very like . One of them Is a plain fish , and no doubt marketable .
Soldiers , sir .
Come , let us go . These things , come thus to light , Smother her spirits up .
Hence . I will follow .
We talk here in the public haunt of men . Either withdraw unto some private place , And reason coldly of your grievances , Or else depart . Here all eyes gaze on us .
How sweetly you do minister to love , That know love 's grief by his complexion ! But lest my liking might too sudden seem , I would have salved it with a longer treatise .
Hippolyta , I wooed thee with my sword And won thy love doing thee injuries . But I will wed thee in another key , With pomp , with triumph , and with reveling .
I pray thee , good Horatio , wait upon him .
Wrench his sword from him .
Come , temperate nymphs , and help to celebrate A contract of true love . Be not too late .
Comparisons are odorous . Palabras , neighbor Verges .
Nor I neither . But I can tell why a snail has a house .
Let me play the fool . With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come . And let my liver rather heat with wine Than my heart cool with mortifying groans . Why should a man whose blood is warm within Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster , Sleep when he wakes , and creep into the jaundice By being peevish ? I tell thee what , Antonio -- I love thee , and ' tis my love that speaks -- There are a sort of men whose visages Do cream and mantle like a standing pond , And do a willful stillness entertain With purpose to be dressed in an opinion Of wisdom , gravity , profound conceit , As who should say , " I am Sir Oracle , And when I ope my lips , let no dog bark ! " O my Antonio , I do know of these That therefore only are reputed wise For saying nothing , when I am very sure If they should speak , would almost damn those ears Which , hearing them , would call their brothers fools . I 'll tell thee more of this another time . But fish not with this melancholy bait For this fool gudgeon , this opinion . -- Come , good Lorenzo . --Fare ye well awhile . I 'll end my exhortation after dinner .
Tonight we hold a solemn supper , sir , And I 'll request your presence .
He is but mad yet , madonna , and the fool shall look to the madman .
And might by no suit gain our audience . When we are wronged and would unfold our griefs , We are denied access unto his person Even by those men that most have done us wrong . The dangers of the days but newly gone , Whose memory is written on the earth With yet appearing blood , and the examples Of every minute 's instance , present now , Hath put us in these ill - beseeming arms , Not to break peace or any branch of it , But to establish here a peace indeed , Concurring both in name and quality .
I 'll know his humor when he knows his time . What should the wars do with these jigging fools ? --Companion , hence !
He never did harm that I heard of .
My Lord of Gloucester , in those busy days Which here you urge to prove us enemies , We followed then our lord , our sovereign king . So should we you , if you should be our king .
What means this scene of rude impatience ?
So , with two seeming bodies but one heart , Two of the first , like coats in heraldry , Due but to one and crowned with one crest . And will you rent our ancient love asunder To join with men in scorning your poor friend ? It is not friendly , ' tis not maidenly . Our sex , as well as I , may chide you for it , Though I alone do feel the injury .
Stand .
By my head , here comes the Capulets .
As little joy , my lord , as you suppose You should enjoy were you this country 's king , As little joy may you suppose in me That I enjoy , being the queen thereof .
It is , it is . Hie hence ! Be gone , away ! It is the lark that sings so out of tune , Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps . Some say the lark makes sweet division . This doth not so , for she divideth us . Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes . Oh , now I would they had changed voices too , Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray , Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day . O , now be gone . More light and light it grows .
Due for a chain your husband had of him .
I am informed thoroughly of the cause . Which is the merchant here , and which the Jew ?
Who bids thee call ? I do not bid thee call .
Were not my doors locked up and I shut out ?
Of such enchanting presence and discourse , Hath almost made me traitor to myself . But lest myself be guilty to self wrong , I 'll stop mine ears against the mermaid 's song .
Who is ' t that cried ?
No hare , sir , unless a hare , sir , in a Lenten pie -- that is , something stale and hoar ere it be spent .
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings , You heavenly guards ! --What would your gracious figure ?
This man hath had good counsel -- a hundred knights ! ' Tis politic and safe to let him keep At point a hundred knights , yes , that on every dream , Each buzz , each fancy , each complaint , dislike , He may enguard his dotage with their powers And hold our lives in mercy?- -Oswald , I say !
Double , double toil and trouble , Fire burn and cauldron bubble .
Marvelous sweet music !
Why then , can one desire too much of a good thing?- - Come , sister , you shall be the priest and marry us . --Give me your hand , Orlando . --What do you say , sister ?
Were all thy letters suns , I could not see one .
I do not much dislike the matter , but The manner of his speech , for ' t cannot be We shall remain in friendship , our conditions So diff'ring in their acts . Yet if I knew What hoop should hold us stanch , from edge to edge O ' th ' world I would pursue it .
And how doth my cousin your bedfellow ? And your fairest daughter and mine , my goddaughter Ellen ?
Why , sir , what 's your conceit in that ?
At supper where ?
Alas , a black ousel , cousin Shallow .
Nay , it is true , or else I am a Turk . You rise to play and go to bed to work .
Romeo , away , be gone ! The citizens are up , and Tybalt slain . Stand not amazed . The Prince will doom thee death If thou art taken . Hence , be gone , away !
With red wheat , Davy . But for William cook , are there no young pigeons ?
Throw physic to the dogs ; I 'll none of it . Come , put mine armor on . Give me my staff . Seyton , send out . --Doctor , the thanes fly from me . Come , sir , dispatch . --If thou couldst , doctor , cast The water of my land , find her disease , And purge it to a sound and pristine health , I would applaud thee to the very echo , That should applaud again . --Pull ' t off , I say . -- What rhubarb , senna , or what purgative drug , Would scour these English hence ? Hear 'st thou of them ?
When clouds are seen , wise men put on their cloaks ; When great leaves fall , then winter is at hand ; When the sun sets , who doth not look for night ? Untimely storms make men expect a dearth . All may be well ; but if God sort it so , ' Tis more than we deserve or I expect .
Being thus benetted round with villainies -- Ere I could make a prologue to my brains , They had begun the play --I sat me down , Devised a new commission , wrote it fair . I once did hold it , as our statists do , A baseness to write fair , and labored much How to forget that learning , but , sir , now It did me yeoman 's service . Wilt thou know Th ' effect of what I wrote ?
Wherefore do I this ? So the question stands . Briefly , to this end : we are all diseased , And with our surfeiting and wanton hours Have brought ourselves into a burning fever , And we must bleed for it ; of which disease Our late King Richard , being infected , died . But , my most noble Lord of Westmoreland , I take not on me here as a physician , Nor do I as an enemy to peace Troop in the throngs of military men , But rather show awhile like fearful war To diet rank minds sick of happiness And purge th ' obstructions which begin to stop Our very veins of life . Hear me more plainly . I have in equal balance justly weighed What wrongs our arms may do , what wrongs we suffer , And find our griefs heavier than our offenses . We see which way the stream of time doth run And are enforced from our most quiet there By the rough torrent of occasion , And have the summary of all our griefs , When time shall serve , to show in articles ; Which long ere this we offered to the King
Stands Scotland where it did ?
Plead you to me , fair dame ? I know you not . In Ephesus I am but two hours old , As strange unto your town as to your talk , Who , every word by all my wit being scanned , Want wit in all one word to understand .
The date is out of such prolixity . We 'll have no Cupid hoodwinked with a scarf , Bearing a Tartar 's painted bow of lath , Scaring the ladies like a crowkeeper , Nor no without - book prologue , faintly spoke After the prompter for our entrance . But let them measure us by what they will . We 'll measure them a measure and be gone .
While he was yet in Rome His power went out in such distractions as Beguiled all spies .
Him and his worth and our great need of him You have right well conceited . Let us go , For it is after midnight , and ere day We will awake him and be sure of him .
Sir , this should be answered .
Even he , sir . Did you know him ?
Great thing of us forgot ! -- Speak , Edmund , where 's the king ? And where 's Cordelia? --
Upon record , my gracious lord .
This in the public eye ?
He would not ?
Prithee , my king , be quiet . Seest thou here , This is the mouth o ' th ' cell . No noise , and enter . Do that good mischief which may make this island Thine own for ever , and I , thy Caliban , For aye thy foot - licker .
Why , what should you fear ?
Here .
Let him fly far . Not in this land shall he remain uncaught . And found --dispatch . The noble duke my master , My worthy arch and patron , comes tonight .
To tell you where he lodges is to tell you where I lie .
Nay , it is possible enough to judgment . I do not so secure me in the error , But the main article I do approve In fearful sense .
They have said their prayers , and they stay for death .
Ay , madam , from the reach of these my hands . Would none but I might venge my cousin 's death !
Away , away , mad ass ! His name is Lucentio and he is mine only son , and heir to the lands of me , Signior Vincentio .
The fee simple ? O simple !
Who , I ? No ; I defy thee ! God 's light , I was never called so in mine own house before .
My Lord High Constable , the English lie within fifteen hundred paces of your tents .
Let every man be master of his time Till seven at night . To make society The sweeter welcome , we will keep ourself Till suppertime alone . While then , God be with you !
And your horse now would make him an ass .
No , you shall paint when you are old .
I confess two sleeves .
Most savage and unnatural !
From the east to western Ind , No jewel is like Rosalind . Her worth being mounted on the wind , Through all the world bears Rosalind . All the pictures fairest lined Are but black to Rosalind . Let no fair be kept in mind But the fair of Rosalind .
We are , my lord , and come to have the warrant That we may be admitted where he is .
All for our vantage . Then , in God 's name , march . True hope is swift , and flies with swallow 's wings . Kings it makes gods , and meaner creatures kings .
Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful .
Master , master ! News , old news , and such news as you never heard of !
Ha ! Who calls ?
Why , I have eat none yet .
Thou ' rt kind .
How many be there of them ?
Whew !
Art thou my son ?
Indeed , that tells a heavy tale for him . Conclude , conclude , he is in love .
But now , my lord .
So do not I. Go , coward as thou art . Well , I 'll go hide the body in some hole Till that the duke give order for his burial . And when I have my meed , I will away , For this will out , and then I must not stay .
So please my lord , I might not be admitted , But from her handmaid do return this answer : The element itself , till seven years ' heat , Shall not behold her face at ample view , But like a cloistress , she will veiled walk And water once a day her chamber round With eye - offending brine -- all this to season A brother 's dead love , which she would keep fresh And lasting in her sad remembrance .
What sayest thou ?
What handkerchief ? Why , that the Moor first gave to Desdemona , That which so often you did bid me steal .
Here comes his body , mourned by Mark Antony , who , though he had no hand in his death , shall receive the benefit of his dying -- a place in the commonwealth -- as which of you shall not ? With this I depart : that , as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome , I have the same dagger for myself when it shall please my country to need my death .
No ? How might a prince of my great hopes forget So great indignities you laid upon me ? What , rate , rebuke , and roughly send to prison Th ' immediate heir of England ? Was this easy ? May this be washed in Lethe and forgotten ?
She is cunning past man 's thought .
Show me which way .
Now , Hamlet , where 's Polonius ?
" De hand . " Et les doigts ?
O Jew ! An upright judge , a learned judge !
Most true . The will ! Let 's stay and hear the will .
Still , still far wide !
Come , Friar Francis , be brief , only to the plain form of marriage , and you shall recount their particular duties afterwards .
Why then , he is alive .
What would you , Desdemona ?
Young Romeo is it ?
Avaunt ! Be gone ! Thou hast set me on the rack . I swear ' tis better to be much abused Than but to know ' t a little .
And you , sir .
He went hence but now , And certainly in strange unquietness .
See whether their basest metal be not moved . They vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness . Go you down that way towards the Capitol . This way will I. Disrobe the images If you do find them decked with ceremonies .
When last the young Orlando parted from you , He left a promise to return again Within an hour , and pacing through the forest , Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy , Lo , what befell . He threw his eye aside -- And mark what object did present itself : Under an old oak , whose boughs were mossed with age And high top bald with dry antiquity , A wretched , ragged man , o'ergrown with hair , Lay sleeping on his back . About his neck A green and gilded snake had wreathed itself , Who with her head , nimble in threats , approached The opening of his mouth . But suddenly , Seeing Orlando , it unlinked itself And , with indented glides , did slip away Into a bush , under which bush 's shade A lioness , with udders all drawn dry , Lay couching , head on ground , with catlike watch When that the sleeping man should stir -- for ' tis The royal disposition of that beast To prey on nothing that doth seem as dead . This seen , Orlando did approach the man And found it was his brother , his elder brother .
I remember .
Call up her father . Rouse him . Make after him , Poison his delight , Proclaim him in the streets . Incense her kinsmen , And , though he in a fertile climate dwell , Plague him with flies . Though that his joy be joy Yet throw such changes of vexation o n't , As it may lose some color .
I am enjoined by oath to observe three things : First , never to unfold to any one Which casket ' twas I chose ; next , if I fail Of the right casket , never in my life To woo a maid in way of marriage ; lastly , If I do fail in fortune of my choice , Immediately to leave you and be gone .
' Tis more than you deserve ; But since you teach me how to flatter you , Imagine I have said " farewell " already .
Open your gates .
What ? Strike his wife ?
Impatient of my absence , And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony Have made themselves so strong -- for with her death That tidings came -- with this she fell distract And , her attendants absent , swallowed fire .
It is concluded . Banquo , thy soul 's flight , If it find heaven , must find it out tonight .
Where are these lads ? Where are these hearts ?
' Chill not let go , zir , without vurther ' casion .
Now might I do it pat . Now he is a - praying . And now I 'll do ' t . And so he goes to heaven . And so am I revenged . --That would be scanned . A villain kills my father , and , for that , I , his sole son , do this same villain send To heaven . Oh , this is hire and salary , not revenge . He took my father grossly , full of bread , With all his crimes broad blown , as flush as May . And how his audit stands who knows save heaven ? But in our circumstance and course of thought ' Tis heavy with him . And am I then revenged
O , wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied ?
O treachery ! Fly , good Fleance , fly , fly , fly ! Thou may 'st revenge --O slave !
Say I would die .
This is Signor Antonio .
I shall .
My gracious lady , go , And thither bear your treasure and your goods . For my part , I 'll resign unto your Grace The seal I keep ; and so betide to me As well I tender you and all of yours . Go . I 'll conduct you to the sanctuary .
I call thee not .
This fellow is wise enough to play the fool , And to do that well craves a kind of wit . He must observe their mood on whom he jests , The quality of persons , and the time , And , like the haggard , check at every feather That comes before his eye . This is a practise As full of labor as a wise man 's art , For folly that he wisely shows is fit . But wise men , folly - fall'n , quite taint their wit .
Why , sir , I brought you word an hour since that the bark Expedition put forth tonight , and then were you hindered by the sergeant to tarry for the hoy Delay . Here are the angels that you sent for to deliver you .
I speak no treason .
Or I have no observance .
Nay , if you melt , then will she run mad .
Is not this buckled well ?
Ay , if I know the letters and the language .
" Some are born great -- "
Tut , tut , good enough to toss ; food for powder , food for powder . They 'll fill a pit as well as better . Tush , man , mortal men , mortal men .
This was a merry message .
Well , he may chance to do some good on her . A peevish self-willed harlotry it is .
Mistress , what 's your opinion of your sister ?
Be you content . Good Cinna , take this paper , And look you lay it in the praetor 's chair Where Brutus may but find it . And throw this In at his window . Set this up with wax Upon old Brutus ' statue . All this done , Repair to Pompey 's porch , where you shall find us . Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there ?
No , madam . We have culled such necessaries As are behooveful for our state tomorrow . So please you , let me now be left alone , And let the Nurse this night sit up with you . For , I am sure , you have your hands full all In this so sudden business .
O noble sir ! Your overkindness doth wring tears from me . I do embrace your offer ; and dispose For henceforth of poor Claudio .
I saw no man use you at his pleasure . If I had , my weapon should quickly have been out , I warrant you . I dare draw as soon as another man if I see occasion in a good quarrel and the law on my side .
Oh , heaven , how got she out ? Oh , treason of the blood ! Fathers , from hence trust not your daughters ' minds By what you see them act . Is there not charms By which the property of youth and maidhood May be abused ? Have you not read , Roderigo , Of some such thing ?
What thinkest thou of his opinion ?
You , Pyramus ' father . --Myself , Thisbe 's father . --Snug the joiner , you , the lion 's part . --And I hope here is a play fitted .
This looks not like a nuptial .
God bless thy lungs , good knight !
By this hand , they are scoundrels and substractors that say so of him . Who are they ?
Slave , thou hast slain me . Villain , take my purse . If ever thou wilt thrive , bury my body . And give the letters which thou find 'st about me To Edmund , Earl of Gloucester . Seek him out Upon the British party . O untimely death !
Wilt thou still talk ?
Which soon he granted , Being an obstruct ' tween his lust and him .
Marry , now I can tell .
Well , do not swear . Although I joy in thee , I have no joy of this contract tonight . It is too rash , too unadvised , too sudden , Too like the lightning , which doth cease to be Ere one can say " It lightens . " Sweet , good night . This bud of love , by summer 's ripening breath , May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet . Good night , good night ! As sweet repose and rest Come to thy heart as that within my breast .
Why , thou owest God a death .
A material fool .
Count Claudio ?
That 's strange .
The thane of Cawdor lives . Why do you dress me In borrowed robes ?
Then if we lose this battle You are contented to be led in triumph Thorough the streets of Rome ?
First , noble friend , Let me embrace thine age , whose honor cannot Be measured or confined .
Upon the king ! Let us our lives , our souls , our debts , our careful wives , our children , and our sins lay on the king ! We must bear all . O hard condition , Twin - born with greatness , subject to the breath Of every fool , whose sense no more can feel But his own wringing . What infinite heart 's ease Must kings neglect that private men enjoy ? And what have kings that privates have not too , Save ceremony , save general ceremony ? And what art thou , thou idol ceremony ? What kind of god art thou , that suffer 'st more Of mortal griefs than do thy worshippers ? What are thy rents ? What are thy comings in ? O ceremony , show me but thy worth ! What is thy soul of adoration ? Art thou aught else but place , degree , and form , Creating awe and fear in other men , Wherein thou art less happy , being feared , Than they in fearing ? What drink 'st thou oft , instead of homage sweet , But poisoned flattery ? Oh , be sick , great greatness , And bid thy ceremony give thee cure ! Think 'st thou the fiery fever will go out With titles blown from adulation ? Will it give place to flexure and low bending ? Canst thou , when thou command 'st the beggar 's knee , Command the health of it ? No , thou proud dream , That play 'st so subtly with a king 's repose . I am a king that find thee , and I know ' Tis not the balm , the scepter , and the ball , The sword , the mace , the crown imperial , The intertissued robe of gold and pearl , The farced title running ' fore the king , The throne he sits on , nor the tide of pomp
With all my heart , so thou canst get a wife .
I 'll call upon you straight . Abide within .
Turn head and stop pursuit , for coward dogs Most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten Runs far before them . Good my sovereign , Take up the English short , and let them know Of what a monarchy you are the head . Self - love , my liege , is not so vile a sin As self - neglecting .
Your napkin is too little , Let it alone .
I am not a slut , though I thank the gods I am foul .
Windy attorneys to their clients ' woes , Airy succeeders of intestate joys , Poor breathing orators of miseries , Let them have scope , though what they will impart Help nothing else , yet do they ease the heart .
Hoo ! says ' a . There 's my cap .
Who knows not where a wasp does wear his sting ? In his tail .
What , Hal , how now , mad wag ? What a devil dost thou in Warwickshire? --My good Lord of Westmoreland , I cry you mercy : I thought your Honor had already been at Shrewsbury .
I am about it , but indeed my invention Comes from my pate as birdlime does from frieze , It plucks out brains and all . But my Muse labors And thus she is delivered : If she be fair and wise , fairness and wit , The one 's for use , the other useth it .
Sweet masters , be patient . For your father 's remembrance , be at accord .
You shall be more beloving than beloved .
And I for Ganymede .
Ergo , Master Launcelot . Talk not of Master Launcelot , Father , for the young gentleman , according to Fates and Destinies and such odd sayings , the Sisters Three and such branches of learning , is indeed deceased , or as you would say in plain terms , gone to heaven .
O ' erblows the filthy and contagious clouds Of heady murder , spoil , and villainy . If not , why , in a moment look to see The blind and bloody soldier with foul hand Desire the locks of your shrill - shrieking daughters , Your fathers taken by the silver beards And their most reverend heads dashed to the walls , Your naked infants spitted upon pikes Whiles the mad mothers with their howls confused Do break the clouds , as did the wives of Jewry At Herod 's bloody - hunting slaughtermen . What say you ? Will you yield and this avoid Or , guilty in defense , be thus destroyed ?
Is that any thing now ?
O comfortable Friar ! Where is my lord ? I do remember well where I should be , And there I am . Where is my Romeo ?
Ay , or very falsely pocket up his report .
Dorset , embrace him . --Hastings , love Lord Marquess .
These are but wild and whirling words , my lord .
My lord , I do not know that I did cry .
Then , brother John of Lancaster , to you This honorable bounty shall belong . Go to the Douglas , and deliver him Up to his pleasure , ransomless and free . His valor shown upon our crests today Hath taught us how to cherish such high deeds , Even in the bosom of our adversaries .
I say , " silver sound " because musicians sound for silver .
Sin from thy lips ? O trespass sweetly urged ! Give me my sin again .
No , by my honor , madam , by my soul , No woman had it but a civil doctor , Which did refuse three thousand ducats of me And begged the ring , the which I did deny him And suffered him to go displeased away -- Even he that did uphold the very life Of my dear friend . What should I say , sweet lady ? I was enforced to send it after him . I was beset with shame and courtesy . My honor would not let ingratitude So much besmear it . Pardon me , good lady , For by these blessed candles of the night , Had you been there I think you would have begged The ring of me to give the worthy doctor .
Tomorrow then I will expect your coming . Tonight I take my leave . This naughty man Shall face to face be brought to Margaret , Who I believe was packed in all this wrong , Hired to it by your brother .
O , thou hast damnable iteration , and art indeed able to corrupt a saint . Thou hast done much harm upon me , Hal , God forgive thee for it . Before I knew thee , Hal , I knew nothing , and now am I , if a man should speak truly , little better than one of the wicked . I must give over this life , and I will give it over . By the Lord , an I do not , I am a villain . I 'll be damned for never a king 's son in Christendom .
" No man must know . " What follows ? The numbers altered . " No man must know . " If this should be thee , Malvolio ?
Not a penny , not a penny . You are too impatient to bear crosses . Fare you well . Commend me to my cousin Westmoreland .
Sir , he 's rash and very sudden in choler , and haply may strike at you . Provoke him that he may . For even out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny , whose qualification shall come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio . So shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means I shall then have to prefer them , and the impediment most profitably removed , without the which there were no expectation of our prosperity .
The same . Your servant Kent . Where is your servant Caius ?
They say Poins has a good wit .
Our gracious brother , I will go with them . Haply a woman 's voice may do some good , When articles too nicely urged be stood on .
Jesters do oft prove prophets .
Come to me , that of this I may speak more . If our father would sleep till I waked him , you should enjoy half his revenue forever , and live the beloved of your brother , Edgar . " Hum , conspiracy ? " 'Sleep till I wake him , you should enjoy half his revenue " -- my son Edgar ? Had he a hand to write this , a heart and brain to breed it in ? When came this to you ? Who brought it ?
What mar you then , sir ?
Why then , cover , and set them down , and see if thou canst find out Sneak 's noise . Mistress Tearsheet would fain hear some music .
If thou beest Prospero , Give us particulars of thy preservation , How thou hast met us here , whom three hours since Were wracked upon this shore , where I have lost -- How sharp the point of this remembrance is ! My dear son Ferdinand .
My lord ?
Here were the servants of your adversary , And yours , close fighting ere I did approach . I drew to part them . In the instant came The fiery Tybalt , with his sword prepared , Which , as he breathed defiance to my ears , He swung about his head and cut the winds , Who , nothing hurt withal , hissed him in scorn . While we were interchanging thrusts and blows , Came more and more and fought on part and part , Till the Prince came , who parted either part .
Thou , it seems , that calls for company to countenance her .
Good morrow to you both . What counterfeit did I give you ?
Why should I think you can be mine , and true -- Though you in swearing shake the throned gods -- Who have been false to Fulvia ? Riotous madness , To be entangled with those mouth - made vows Which break themselves in swearing !
Descend .
Call you this chiding ?
Well , Petruchio , this has put me in heart . Have to my widow , and if she be froward , Then hast thou taught Hortensio to be untoward .
I had rather give his carcass to my hounds .
Will this description satisfy him ?
No , rather I will go to Benedick And counsel him to fight against his passion ; And truly I 'll devise some honest slanders To stain my cousin with . One doth not know How much an ill word may empoison liking .
Marry , and shall , and very willingly .
O God ! Counterfeit ? There was never counterfeit of passion came so near the life of passion as she discovers it .
No , no , by God 's good grace , his son shall reign .
Now he denies it faintly , and laughs it out .
If thou wert my fool , nuncle , I 'd have thee beaten for being old before thy time .
Then I would you were so honest a man .
We 'll be friends first .
Yield , cur .
O royal Caesar !
That 's me , I warrant you .
What says my general ?
No , it is not possible you should love the enemy of France , Kate . But , in loving me , you should love the friend of France , for I love France so well that I will not part with a village of it . I will have it all mine . And , Kate , when France is mine and I am yours , then yours is France and you are mine .
Ha , what sayest thou ? Why , the end is he hath lost a ship .
I know thee not , old man . Fall to thy prayers . How ill white hairs become a fool and jester . I have long dreamt of such a kind of man , So surfeit - swelled , so old , and so profane ; But being awaked , I do despise my dream . Make less thy body hence , and more thy grace ; Leave gormandizing . Know the grave doth gape For thee thrice wider than for other men . Reply not to me with a fool - born jest . Presume not that I am the thing I was , For God doth know -- so shall the world perceive -- That I have turned away my former self . So will I those that kept me company . When thou dost hear I am as I have been , Approach me , and thou shalt be as thou wast , The tutor and the feeder of my riots . Till then I banish thee , on pain of death , As I have done the rest of my misleaders ,
Come on , then . He may recover yet .
Be your tears wet ? Yes , faith . I pray , weep not . If you have poison for me , I will drink it . I know you do not love me , for your sisters Have , as I do remember , done me wrong . You have some cause ; they have not .
But your reason was not substantial why there is no time to recover .
What is " pourquoi " ? Do , or not do ? I would I had bestowed that time in the tongues that I have in fencing , dancing , and bear - baiting . O , had I but followed the arts !
Set me the crown upon my pillow here .
Her gentlewomen , like the Nereides , So many mermaids , tended her i ' th ' eyes , And made their bends adornings . At the helm A seeming mermaid steers . The silken tackle Swell with the touches of those flower - soft hands That yarely frame the office . From the barge A strange invisible perfume hits the sense Of the adjacent wharfs . The city cast Her people out upon her , and Antony , Enthroned i ' th ' marketplace , did sit alone , Whistling to th ' air , which , but for vacancy , Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too And made a gap in nature .
" And wished to see thee cross - gartered . "
Well , gentlemen , I am thus resolved : On Sunday next , you know My daughter Katherina is to be married . Now , on the Sunday following , shall Bianca Be bride to you , if you make this assurance . If not , to Signior Gremio . And so I take my leave , and thank you both .
My lord protector needs will have it so .
Ay .
What was th ' offense you gave him ?
This is the fruits of rashness . Marked you not How that the guilty kindred of the queen Looked pale when they did hear of Clarence ' death ? O , they did urge it still unto the king . God will revenge it . Come , lords , will you go To comfort Edward with our company ?
Ha ! Not for the wide world .
For saying so , there 's gold . Mine own escape unfoldeth to my hope , Whereto thy speech serves for authority , The like of him . Know 'st thou this country ?
Ay , he spoke Greek .
Is ' t possible ?
I could match this beginning with an old tale .
What now , Lucillius ? Is Cassius near ?
May not one speak ?
Cold friends to me . What do they in the north When they should serve their sovereign in the west ?
I can no longer brook thy vanities .
Three in Egypt Cannot make better note .
I warrant you , with pure love and troubled brain he hath ta'en his bow and arrows and is gone forth to sleep .
And strange it is That nature must compel us to lament Our most persisted deeds .
Why looks your grace so heavily today ?
Will you ha ' the truth on ' t ? If this had not been a gentlewoman , she should have been buried out o ' Christian burial .
Thus men may grow wiser every day . It is the first time that ever I heard breaking of ribs was sport for ladies .
With all my heart .
Marry , we were sent for to the justices .
No , indeed are they not .
Dost thou call me fool , boy ?
The king would speak with Cornwall . The dear father Would with his daughter speak , commands , tends service . Are they " informed " of this ? My breath and blood ! " Fiery " ? The " fiery " duke ? Tell the hot duke that Lear -- No , but not yet . Maybe he is not well . Infirmity doth still neglect all office Whereto our health is bound . We are not ourselves When nature , being oppressed , commands the mind To suffer with the body . I 'll forbear , And am fallen out with my more headier will To take the indisposed and sickly fit For the sound man . Death on my state ! Wherefore Should he sit here ? This act persuades me That this remotion of the duke and her Is practice only . Give me my servant forth . Go tell the duke and 's wife I 'd speak with them -- Now , presently . Bid them come forth and hear me , Or at their chamber door I 'll beat the drum Till it cry sleep to death .
Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron . Hold , take this letter . Early in the morning See thou deliver it to my lord and father . Give me the light . Upon thy life I charge thee , Whate'er thou hear 'st or seest , stand all aloof , And do not interrupt me in my course . Why I descend into this bed of death Is partly to behold my lady 's face , But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger A precious ring , a ring that I must use In dear employment . Therefore hence , be gone . But if thou , jealous , dost return to pry In what I farther shall intend to do , By heaven , I will tear thee joint by joint And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs . The time and my intents are savage , wild , More fierce and more inexorable far Than empty tigers or the roaring sea .
Shylock is my name .
Therefore the poet Did feign that Orpheus drew trees , stones , and floods Since naught so stockish , hard , and full of rage , But music for the time doth change his nature . The man that hath no music in himself , Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds , Is fit for treasons , stratagems , and spoils . The motions of his spirit are dull as night , And his affections dark as Erebus . Let no such man be trusted . Mark the music .
Douglas is living , and your brother yet , But for my lord your son --
Sure ones , then .
Then this remains , that we divide our power . You , son John , and my cousin Westmoreland , Towards York shall bend you with your dearest speed To meet Northumberland and the prelate Scroop , Who , as we hear , are busily in arms . Myself and you , son Harry , will towards Wales To fight with Glendower and the Earl of March . Rebellion in this land shall lose his sway , Meeting the check of such another day . And since this business so fair is done , Let us not leave till all our own be won .
Come , bring away the plaintiffs . By this time our sexton hath reformed Signior Leonato of the matter . And , masters , do not forget to specify , when time and place shall serve , that I am an ass .
Will you hear me , Roderigo ?
Is ' t possible you will away tonight ?
Thou dost not wish more help from England , coz ?
How then , sick ?
She 's limed , I warrant you . We have caught her , madam .
Less than an ace , man . For he is dead . He is nothing .
And Hymen now with luckier issue speed 's Than this for whom we rendered up this woe .
Yes , faith , and all his lords , the Duke of Milan And his brave son being twain .
My uncle is returned . Deliver up my Lord of Westmoreland . -- Uncle , what news ?
Why , here he comes , swelling like a turkey - cock .
Come what come may , Time and the hour runs through the roughest day .
I do consent --
Then let your servants bring my husband forth .
For shame , bring Juliet forth . Her lord is come .
Good my lord , hear me .
" Here , sir ! Here , sir ! Here , sir ! Here , sir ! " You loggerheaded and unpolished grooms ! What , no attendance ? No regard ? No duty ? Where is the foolish knave I sent before ?
Here 's our chief guest .
And most chirurgeonly .
Oh , God defend me ! how am I beset ! -- What kind of catechizing call you this ?
Good morrow to this fair assembly .
Thou teachest like a fool the way to lose him .
Peter , didst ever see the like ?
How ?
What paper were you reading ?
Wherefore , sweetheart ? What 's your metaphor ?
Three times hath Henry Bolingbroke made head Against my power ; thrice from the banks of Wye And sandy - bottomed Severn have I sent him Bootless home and weather-beaten back .
That thrust had been mine enemy indeed But that my coat is better than thou know 'st I will make proof of thine .
Here at your service . My lord approaches .
Give me my veil . Come , throw it o'er my face . We 'll once more hear Orsino 's embassy .
Gentlemen all , I do suspect this trash To be a party in this injury . -- Patience awhile , good Cassio . --Come , come , Lend me a light . Know we this face or no ? Alas , my friend and my dear countryman Roderigo ! No -- yes , sure ! Yes , ' tis Roderigo .
So many guests invite as here are writ .
O God , that one might read the book of fate And see the revolution of the times Make mountains level , and the continent , Weary of solid firmness , melt itself Into the sea , and other times to see The beachy girdle of the ocean Too wide for Neptune 's hips ; how chance 's mocks And changes fill the cup of alteration
Come , come , let us thither . This may prove food to my displeasure . That young start-up hath all the glory of my overthrow . If I can cross him any way , I bless myself every way . You are both sure , and will assist me ?
I 'll attend her here And woo her with some spirit when she comes . Say that she rail ; why then I 'll tell her plain She sings as sweetly as a nightingale . Say that she frown ; I 'll say she looks as clear As morning roses newly washed with dew . Say she be mute and will not speak a word ; Then I 'll commend her volubility , And say she uttereth piercing eloquence . If she do bid me pack , I 'll give her thanks , As though she bid me stay by her a week . If she deny to wed , I 'll crave the day When I shall ask the banns and when be married . But here she comes -- and now , Petruchio , speak .
And welcome more common , for that 's nothing but words .
Feste , the jester , my lord , a fool that the lady Olivia 's father took much delight in . He is about the house .
May be the devil , and the devil hath power T ' assume a pleasing shape . Yea , and perhaps Out of my weakness and my melancholy , As he is very potent with such spirits , Abuses me to damn me . I 'll have grounds More relative than this . The play 's the thing Wherein I 'll catch the conscience of the king .
No , indeed , my lord .
I dare not drink yet , madam . By and by .
That youth 's a rare courtier . " Rain odors . " Well .
Pyramus draws near the wall . Silence !
And when good will is showed , though ' t come too short , The actor may plead pardon . I 'll none now . Give me mine angle . We 'll to th ' river . There , My music playing far off , I will betray Tawny - finned fishes . My bended hook shall pierce Their slimy jaws , and as I draw them up I 'll think them every one an Antony And say , " Aha ! You 're caught . "
Would you have a love song or a song of good life ?
Well , here I am set .
I think it be two o'clock .
Thou art Dromio , thou art my man , thou art thyself .
But hear you , my lord .
I am glad that my weak words Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus .
If ancient sorrow be most reverend , Give mine the benefit of seigniory , And let my griefs frown on the upper hand . If sorrow can admit society , Tell o'er your woes again by viewing mine . I had an Edward till a Richard killed him ; I had a husband till a Richard killed him . Thou hadst an Edward till a Richard killed him ; Thou hadst a Richard till a Richard killed him .
Y'are a baggage , the Slys are no rogues . Look in the chronicles -- we came in with Richard Conqueror . Therefore paucas pallabris : let the world slide . Sessa !
Nay , you must forget that .
All' s well , sweeting , Come away to bed . -- Sir , for your hurts Myself will be your surgeon . Lead him off .
Marry , heaven forbid !
And for mine , sir , I will govern it .
Monster , lay to your fingers . Help to bear this away where my hogshead of wine is , or I 'll turn you out of my kingdom . Go to , carry this .
The trick of that voice I do well remember . Is ' t not the king ?
If it might please you to enforce no further The griefs between ye , to forget them quite Were to remember that the present need Speaks to atone you .
By giving liberty unto thine eyes . Examine other beauties .
Set we our squadrons on yond side o ' th ' hill , In eye of Caesar 's battle , from which place We may the number of the ships behold And so proceed accordingly .
Ay , my lord .
I will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight , so drunken , and so indiscreet an officer . Drunk ? And speak parrot ? And squabble ? Swagger ? Swear ? And discourse fustian with one 's own shadow ? O thou invisible spirit of wine , if thou hast no name to be known by , let us call thee devil !
Pardon me , Bianca , I have this while with leaden thoughts been pressed , But I shall , in a more continuate time , Strike off this score of absence . Sweet Bianca , Take me this work out .
I cry thee mercy . There is my purse to cure that blow of thine . He gives money Hath any well-advised friend proclaimed Reward to him that brings the traitor in ?
Then certifies your Lordship that this night He dreamt the boar had razed his helm Besides , he says there are two councils kept , And that may be determined at the one Which may make you and him to rue at th ' other . Therefore he sends to know your Lordship 's pleasure , If you will presently take horse with him And with all speed post with him toward the north To shun the danger that his soul divines .
I fear it is too choleric a meat . How say you to a fat tripe finely broiled ?
" This policy and reverence of age makes the world bitter to the best of our times , keeps our fortunes from us till our oldness cannot relish them . I begin to find an idle and fond bondage in the oppression of aged tyranny , who sways not as it hath power but as it is suffered .
Should I lie , madam ?
How if fair and foolish ?
Then take , my Lord of Westmoreland , this schedule , For this contains our general grievances . Each several article herein redressed , All members of our cause , both here and hence , That are insinewed to this action , Acquitted by a true substantial form And present execution of our wills To us and to our purposes confined , We come within our awful banks again And knit our powers to the arm of peace .
Thou dost snore distinctly . There 's meaning in thy snores .
Will you give me money , captain ?
Of my nation ? What ish my nation ? Ish a villain and a basterd and a knave and a rascal . What ish my nation ? Who talks of my nation ?
Upon my life , by some device or other The villain is o'erraught of all my money . They say this town is full of cozenage , As nimble jugglers that deceive the eye , Dark - working sorcerers that change the mind , Soul - killing witches that deform the body , Disguised cheaters , prating mountebanks , And many suchlike liberties of sin . If it prove so , I will be gone the sooner . I 'll to the Centaur to go seek this slave . I greatly fear my money is not safe .
O Seigneur Dew should be a gentleman . Perpend my words , O Seigneur Dew , and mark : O Seigneur Dew , thou diest on point of fox , except , O Seigneur , thou do give to me egregious ransom .
Pardon me , sir , your bad entertainment .
Dost thou believe , Orlando , that the boy Can do all this that he hath promised ?
O no , my nephew must not know , Sir Richard , The liberal and kind offer of the King .
Your Majesty shall mock at me . I cannot speak your England .
And it is marvel he outdwells his hour , For lovers ever run before the clock .
Clerk , draw a deed of gift .
Why dost thou spit at me ?
Like aqua vitae with a midwife .
Approach , Sir Andrew . Not to be abed after midnight is to be up betimes , and diluculo surgere , thou know'st , --
I will discharge upon her , Sir John , with two bullets .
Now let thy friendly hand Put strength enough to ' t .
I remember , one said there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savory , nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of affectation , but called it an honest method , as wholesome as sweet , and by very much more handsome than fine . One speech in it I chiefly loved . ' Twas Aeneas ' tale to Dido and thereabout of it , especially where he speaks of Priam 's slaughter . If it live in your &gt; memory , begin at this line --Let me see , let me see -- The rugged Pyrrhus , like th ' Hyrcanian beast -- It is not so . It begins with Pyrrhus -- The rugged Pyrrhus , he whose sable arms , Black as his purpose , did the night resemble When he lay couched in the ominous horse , Hath now this dread and black complexion smeared With heraldry more dismal . Head to foot Now is he total gules , horridly tricked With blood of fathers , mothers , daughters , sons , Baked and impasted with the parching streets , That lend a tyrannous and damned light To their lord 's murder . Roasted in wrath and fire , And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore , With eyes like carbuncles , the hellish Pyrrhus Old grandsire Priam seeks . So , proceed you .
Good my lord , How does your honor for this many a day ?
Ha , ha , how vilely doth this cynic rhyme !
' Swounds , show me what thou'lt do . Woo't weep ? Woo't fight ? Woo't fast ? Woo't tear thyself ? Woo't drink up eisel , eat a crocodile ? I 'll do ' t . Dost thou come here to whine , To outface me with leaping in her grave ? Be buried quick with her?- -and so will I. And if thou prate of mountains let them throw Millions of acres on us , till our ground , Singeing his pate against the burning zone , Make Ossa like a wart ! Nay , an thou'lt mouth , I 'll rant as well as thou .
Marry , my lord , lest by a multitude The new - healed wound of malice should break out , Which would be so much the more dangerous By how much the estate is green and yet ungoverned . Where every horse bears his commanding rein And may direct his course as please himself , As well the fear of harm as harm apparent , In my opinion , ought to be prevented .
Say , what abridgement have you for this evening ? What masque , what music ? How shall we beguile The lazy time if not with some delight ?
Thou wretched , rash , intruding fool , farewell . I took thee for thy better . Take thy fortune . Thou find 'st to be too busy is some danger . Leave wringing of your hands . Peace . Sit you down And let me wring your heart . For so I shall If it be made of penetrable stuff , If damned custom have not brassed it so That it is proof and bulwark against sense .
Old Cassius still .
" D' elbow . "
There be some sports are painful , and their labor Delight in them sets off . Some kinds of baseness Are nobly undergone . And most poor matters Point to rich ends . This my mean task Would be as heavy to me as odious , but The mistress which I serve quickens what 's dead And makes my labors pleasures . Oh , she is Ten times more gentle than her father 's crabbed , And he 's composed of harshness . I must remove Some thousands of these logs and pile them up , Upon a sore injunction . My sweet mistress Weeps when she sees me work , and says such baseness Had never like executor . I forget , But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labors , Most busiest when I do it .
Stand thee by , Friar . --Father , by your leave , Will you with free and unconstrained soul Give me this maid , your daughter ?
More rushes , more rushes .
O heavens , this is my true - begotten father , who , being more than sand - blind -- high - gravel blind -- knows me not . I will try confusions with him .
What , may it please you , shall I do at Salisbury ?
A pox o ' your throat , you bawling , blasphemous , incharitable dog !
Are not you moved when all the sway of earth Shakes like a thing unfirm ? O Cicero , I have seen tempests when the scolding winds Have rived the knotty oaks , and I have seen Th ' ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam To be exalted with the threatening clouds , But never till tonight , never till now , Did I go through a tempest dropping fire . Either there is a civil strife in heaven , Or else the world , too saucy with the gods , Incenses them to send destruction .
Where is this rash and most unfortunate man ?
Mine nightingale , We have beat them to their beds . What , girl , though gray Do something mingle with our younger brown , yet ha ' we A brain that nourishes our nerves and can Get goal for goal of youth . Behold this man . Commend unto his lips thy favoring hand . Kiss it , my warrior .
You shall not go , my lord .
For us , we will consider of this further . Tomorrow shall you bear our full intent Back to our brother England .
Caesar , I shall .
I do beseech your Grace , Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me . If with myself I hold intelligence Or have acquaintance with mine own desires , If that I do not dream or be not frantic -- As I do trust I am not -- then , dear uncle , Never so much as in a thought unborn Did I offend your Highness .
I pray you , sir , receive the money now , For fear you ne'er see chain nor money more .
So shalt thou show me friendship . Take thou that . Live and be prosperous , and farewell , good fellow .
Come on . Obey . Thy nerves are in their infancy again And have no vigor in them .
Not since widow Dido 's time .
Madam ?
I ne'er saw this before . Sure , there 's some wonder in this handkerchief , I am most unhappy in the loss of it .
I ' faith , he 'll have a lusty widow now That shall be wooed and wedded in a day .
I make all use of it , for I use it only . Who comes here ?
This is the brief of money , plate , and jewels I am possessed of . ' Tis exactly valued , Not petty things admitted . Where 's Seleucus ?
Hence , saucy eunuch ! Peace ! She hath betrayed me and shall die the death .
Is ' t possible , my lord ?
It pleases your Worship to say so , but we are the poor duke 's officers . But truly , for mine own part , if I were as tedious as a king , I could find it in my heart to bestow it all of your worship .
But this our purpose now is twelve month old , And bootless ' tis to tell you we will go . Therefor we meet not now . Then let me hear Of you , my gentle cousin Westmoreland , What yesternight our council did decree In forwarding this dear expedience .
I am as poor as Job , my lord , but not so patient . Your Lordship may minister the potion of imprisonment to me in respect of poverty , but how should I be your patient to follow your prescriptions , the wise may make some dram of a scruple , or indeed a scruple itself .
Believe me , King of Shadows , I mistook . Did not you tell me I should know the man By the Athenian garment he had on ? And so far blameless proves my enterprise , That I have ' nointed an Athenian 's eyes . And so far am I glad it so did sort , As this their jangling I esteem a sport .
To him , Father .
Unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense . I know his eye doth homage otherwhere , Or else what lets it but he would be here ? Sister , you know he promised me a chain . Would that alone o ' love he would detain , So he would keep fair quarter with his bed . I see the jewel best enameled Will lose his beauty . Yet the gold bides still That others touch , and often touching will Wear gold ; yet no man that hath a name By falsehood and corruption doth it shame . Since that my beauty cannot please his eye , I 'll weep what 's left away , and weeping die .
You must take your chance , And either not attempt to choose at all Or swear before you choose , if you choose wrong Never to speak to lady afterward In way of marriage . Therefore be advised .
My lord , we were sent for .
Why , Buckingham , I say I would be king ,
Nay , heaven doth know .
I would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever knapped ginger or made her neighbors believe she wept for the death of a third husband . But it is true , without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain highway of talk , that the good Antonio , the honest Antonio -- oh , that I had a title good enough to keep his name company ! --
Ay . Would you had never seen him !
How now , my love ? Why is your cheek so pale ? How chance the roses there do fade so fast ?
If he say so , may his pernicious soul Rot half a grain a day ! He lies to th ' heart . She was too fond of her most filthy bargain .
Who 's there ?
Not this , but troubles of the marriage bed .
No , sir , I think the meat wants that I have .
What , my gracious lord ?
His eyes do show his days are almost done .
We have some haste , Leonato .
Good madam , patience .
All - seeing heaven , what a world is this !
Farewell , farewell . One kiss , and I 'll descend .
It is .
I am content .
Not a man of those but he hath the wit to lose his hair .
He and Lepidus are at Caesar 's house .
To bed ? " Ay , sweetheart , and I 'll come to thee . "
Cousin , I think thou art enamored On his follies . Never did I hear Of any Prince so wild a liberty . But be he as he will , yet once ere night I will embrace him with a soldier 's arm , That he shall shrink under my courtesy . -- Arm , arm with speed , and , fellows , soldiers , friends , Better consider what you have to do Than I that have not well the gift of tongue Can lift your blood up with persuasion .
Ho , now you strike like the blind man . ' Twas the boy that stole your meat , and you 'll beat the post .
Good night . Get thee to bed and rest , for thou hast need .
Truly , an obedient lady . I do beseech your lordship , call her back .
Good , speak to th ' mariners . Fall to ' t yarely , or we run ourselves aground . Bestir , bestir .
No cock of mine . You crow too like a craven .
And the creature run from the cur ? There thou mightst behold the great image of authority : a dog 's obeyed in office . Thou rascal beadle , hold thy bloody hand . Why dost thou lash that whore ? Strip thine own back . Thou hotly lust 'st to use her in that kind For which thou whipp 'st her . The usurer hangs the cozener . Through tattered clothes great vices do appear ; Robes and furred gowns hide all . Plate sin with gold , And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks . Arm it in rags , a pigmy 's straw does pierce it . None does offend -- none , I say , none . I 'll able ' em . Take that of me , my friend , who have the power To seal th ' accuser 's lips . Get thee glass eyes , And like a scurvy politician seem To see the things thou dost not . Now , now , now , now , Pull off my boots . Harder , harder . So .
My daughter ! Oh , my daughter !
I thank thee . Lead me on .
Be governed by your knowledge , and proceed I ' th ' sway of your own will . Is he arrayed ?
Good morrow , old Sir Thomas Erpingham . A good soft pillow for that good white head Were better than a churlish turf of France .
O mischief strangely thwarting !
Of honorable reckoning are you both . And pity ' tis you lived at odds so long . But now , my lord , what say you to my suit ?
Should not upbraid our course . For all the rest , They 'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk . They 'll tell the clock to any business that We say befits the hour .
That they lack , for if their heads had any intellectual armor , they could never wear such heavy head - pieces .
Go , go , poor soul , I envy not thy glory . To feed my humor , wish thyself no harm .
They are loves I bear to you .
Moreover , he hath left you all his walks , His private arbors and new - planted orchards , On this side Tiber . He hath left them you And to your heirs forever -- common pleasures , To walk abroad and recreate yourselves . Here was a Caesar ! When comes such another ?
Whe'er thou beest he or no , Or some enchanted trifle to abuse me , As late I have been , I not know . Thy pulse Beats as of flesh and blood . And since I saw thee , Th ' affliction of my mind amends , with which I fear a madness held me . This must crave -- An if this be at all -- a most strange story . Thy dukedom I resign and do entreat Thou pardon me my wrongs . But how should Prospero Be living and be here ?
Do I so ? Take thou that . As you like this , give me the lie another time .
Cannot my Lord Stanley sleep these tedious nights ?
And in the wood where often you and I Upon faint primrose beds were wont to lie , Emptying our bosoms of their counsel sweet ,
That she is worthy , I know .
Good fool , as ever thou wilt deserve well at my hand , help me to a candle , and pen , ink , and paper . As I am a gentleman , I will live to be thankful to thee for ' t .
Only foul words , and thereupon I will kiss thee .
Assuredly the thing is to be sold . Go with me . If you like upon report The soil , the profit , and this kind of life , I will your very faithful feeder be And buy it with your gold right suddenly .
Why , your lieutenant , Cassio . Good my lord , If I have any grace or power to move you His present reconciliation take . For if he be not one that truly loves you , That errs in ignorance and not in cunning , I have no judgment in an honest face . I prithee , call him back .
Comes the King back from Wales , my noble lord ?
They , for their truth , might better wear their heads Than some that have accused them wear their hats . But come , my lord , let 's away .
Truth 's a dog that must to kennel . He must be whipped out , when Lady Brach may stand by th ' fire and stink .
No , sir , I say his horse comes , with him on his back .
We must follow the leaders .
Thou mayst , I warrant . We shall have old swearing That they did give the rings away to men . But we 'll outface them , and outswear them too . --
If I be not ashamed of my soldiers , I am a soused gurnet . I have misused the King 's press damnably . I have got , in exchange of a hundred and fifty soldiers , three hundred and odd pounds . I press me none but good householders , yeomen 's sons ; inquire me out contracted bachelors , such as had been asked twice on the banns ; such a commodity of warm slaves -- as had as lief hear the devil as a drum , such as fear the report of a caliver worse than a struck fowl or a hurt wild duck . I pressed me none but such toasts - and - butter , with hearts in their bellies no bigger than pins ' heads , and
Well , sir , for want of other idleness , I 'll bide your proof .
West of this forest , scarcely off a mile , In goodly form comes on the enemy , And , by the ground they hide , I judge their number Upon or near the rate of thirty thousand .
Here is a friar that trembles , sighs and weeps . We took this mattock and this spade from him As he was coming from this churchyard 's side .
If such tricks as these strip you out of your lieutenantry , it had been better you had not kissed your three fingers so oft , which now again you are most apt to play the sir in . Very good , well kissed , and excellent courtesy ! ' tis so , indeed . Yet again your fingers to your lips ? Would they were clyster - pipes for your sake ! --
I could make as true a boast as that if I had a sow to my mistress .
Ay , in the temple , in the town , the field You do me mischief . Fie , Demetrius ! Your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex . We cannot fight for love as men may do . We should be wooed and were not made to woo .
Hang there , my verse , in witness of my love . And thou , thrice - crowned queen of night , survey With thy chaste eye , from thy pale sphere above , Thy huntress ' name that my full life doth sway . O Rosalind , these trees shall be my books , And in their barks my thoughts I 'll character , That every eye which in this forest looks Shall see thy virtue witnessed everywhere . Run , run , Orlando , carve on every tree The fair , the chaste , and unexpressive she .
Casca will tell us what the matter is .
Hear you , my lords --
I would fain see this meeting .
Here , my good lord . What is ' t that moves your highness ?
Wherein we saw thee quietly interred , Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws To cast thee up again . What may this mean , That thou , dead corse , again in complete steel Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon , Making night hideous and we fools of nature , So horridly to shake our disposition With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls ? Say why is this ? Wherefore ? What should we do ?
Quick proceeders , marry ! Now , tell me , I pray , You that durst swear that your mistress Bianca Loved none in the world so well as Lucentio .
Set me where you stand .
Help to dress me , good coz , good Meg , good Ursula .
I would not see ' t .
But who , ah woe , who had seen the mobled queen --
So Brutus should be found . --I thank thee , Brutus , That thou hast proved Lucillius ' saying true .
It sorts well with your fierceness .
Then you must say " I take thee , Rosalind , for wife . "
And they have been grand - jurymen since before Noah was a sailor .
If that you were the good Sir Rowland 's son , As you have whispered faithfully you were , And as mine eye doth his effigies witness Most truly limned and living in your face , Be truly welcome hither . I am the duke That loved your father . The residue of your fortune Go to my cave and tell me . --Good old man , Thou art right welcome as thy master is . Support him by the arm . Give me your hand , And let me all your fortunes understand .
If I can fasten but one cup upon him , With that which he hath drunk tonight already , He 'll be as full of quarrel and offense As my young mistress ' dog . Now my sick fool Roderigo , Whom love hath turned almost the wrong side out , To Desdemona hath tonight caroused Potations pottle-deep , and he 's to watch . Three lads of Cyprus , noble swelling spirits ( That hold their honors in a wary distance , The very elements of this warlike isle ) Have I tonight flustered with flowing cups , And they watch too . Now ' mongst this flock of drunkards Am I to put our Cassio in some action That may offend the isle . But here they come . If consequence do but approve my dream My boat sails freely , both with wind and stream .
I cannot say the words .
Ay , at Philippi .
Marry , then , Mouldy , Bullcalf , Feeble , and Shadow .
Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of your Grace , for trouble being gone , comfort should remain , but when you depart from me , sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave .
Why should this a desert be ? For it is unpeopled ? No. Tongues I 'll hang on every tree That shall civil sayings show . Some how brief the life of man Runs his erring pilgrimage , That the stretching of a span Buckles in his sum of age ; Some of violated vows ' Twixt the souls of friend and friend . But upon the fairest boughs , Or at every sentence end , Will I " Rosalinda " write , Teaching all that read to know The quintessence of every sprite Heaven would in little show . Therefore heaven nature charged That one body should be filled With all graces wide - enlarged . Nature presently distilled Helen 's cheek , but not her heart , Cleopatra 's majesty , Atalanta 's better part , Sad Lucretia 's modesty .
You have obtained it .
And the queen too , and that presently .
Titinius is enclosed round about With horsemen , that make to him on the spur . Yet he spurs on . Now they are almost on him . Now , Titinius . Now some light . Oh , he lights too . He 's ta'en .
This note doth tell me of ten thousand French That in the field lie slain . Of princes in this number And nobles bearing banners , there lie dead One hundred twenty - six . Added to these , Of knights , esquires , and gallant gentlemen , Eight thousand and four hundred , of the which , Five hundred were but yesterday dubbed knights . So that in these ten thousand they have lost , There are but sixteen hundred mercenaries . The rest are princes , barons , lords , knights , squires , And gentlemen of blood and quality . The names of those their nobles that lie dead : Charles Delabreth , high constable of France ; Jaques of Chatillon , admiral of France ; The Master of the Crossbows , Lord Rambures ;
I would therefore my sister had no name , sir .
Behold , there stand the caskets , noble Prince . If you choose that wherein I am contained , Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemnized . But if you fail , without more speech , my lord , You must be gone from hence immediately .
Is that the law ?
Seven groats and two pence .
This sword but shown to Caesar , with this tidings , Shall enter me with him .
Ay , sooth , so humbled That he hath left part of his grief with me To suffer with him . Good love , call him back .
O true , good Catesby . Bid him levy straight The greatest strength and power that he can make And meet me suddenly at Salisbury .
No , my good lord . Therefore be patient .
I denied you not .
How now , Roderigo !
Good night , my noble lord .
No more of that . He did so .
Art thou afeard ?
Romeo will answer it .
I like them all , and do allow them well , And swear here by the honor of my blood , My father 's purposes have been mistook , And some about him have too lavishly Wrested his meaning and authority . My lord , these griefs shall be with speed redressed ; Upon my soul , they shall . If this may please you , Discharge your powers unto their several counties , As we will ours , and here , between the armies , Let 's drink together friendly and embrace , That all their eyes may bear those tokens home Of our restored love and amity .
We shall obey , were she ten times our mother . Have you any further trade with us ?
Away , you scullion , you rampallion , you fustilarian ! I 'll tickle your catastrophe .
Bliss be upon you ! Tell me , good my friend , What torch is yond that vainly lends his light To grubs and eyeless skulls ? As I discern , It burneth in the Capels ' monument .
Then hear me , gracious sovereign , and you peers That owe yourselves , your lives , and services To this imperial throne . There is no bar To make against your Highness ' claim to France But this , which they produce from Pharamond : " In terram Salicam mulieres ne succedant " , Which Salic land the French unjustly gloze To be the realm of France , and Pharamond The founder of this law and female bar . Yet their own authors faithfully affirm That the land Salic is in Germany , Between the floods of Sala and of Elbe , Where Charles the Great , having subdued the Saxons , There left behind and settled certain French , Who , holding in disdain the German women For some dishonest manners of their life , Established then this law : to wit , no female Should be inheritrix in Salic land , Which " Salic , " as I said , ' twixt Elbe and Sala Is at this day in Germany called Meissen .
My dear master , My captain , and my emperor , let me say , Before I strike this bloody stroke , farewell .
I am very glad of it . I 'll plague him . I 'll torture him . I am glad of it .
And what 's the news , good cousin Lodovico ?
Thanks to my lord . The Jove of power make me most weak , most weak , Your reconciler ! Wars ' twixt you twain would be As if the world should cleave , and that slain men Should solder up the rift .
Where dwell you , pretty youth ?
On what compulsion must I ? Tell me that .
Because their business still lies out o ' door .
Will you tell me that ? His son was but a ward two years ago .
None but his enemies .
Nay , good Lysander . For my sake , my dear , Lie further off yet . Do not lie so near .
What mean 'st by this ?
weakness , and admire our sufferance . Bid him therefore consider of his ransom , which must proportion the losses we have borne , the subjects we have lost , the disgrace we have digested , which , in weight to reanswer , his pettiness would bow under . For our losses , his exchequer is too poor ; for th ' effusion of our blood , the muster of his kingdom too faint a number ; and for our disgrace , his own person , kneeling at our feet but a weak and worthless satisfaction . To this , add defiance , and tell him , for conclusion , he hath betrayed his followers , whose condemnation is pronounced . " So far my king and master ; so much my office .
Here comes two of the banished duke 's pages .
As a friend .
A curtain is drawn showing a gold , silver , and lead casket
Kind Tyrrel , am I happy in thy news ?
Ecstasy ? My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time And makes as healthful music . It is not madness That I have uttered . Bring me to the test , And I the matter will reword , which madness Would gambol from . Mother , for love of grace , Lay not that flattering unction to your soul That not your trespass but my madness speaks . It will but skin and film the ulcerous place Whilst rank corruption , mining all within , Infects unseen . Confess yourself to heaven . Repent what 's past . Avoid what is to come . And do not spread the compost on the weeds To make them ranker . Forgive me this my virtue , For in the fatness of these pursy times Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg , Yea , curb and woo for leave to do him good .
Conster them .
I heard myself proclaimed , And by the happy hollow of a tree Escaped the hunt . No port is free , no place That guard and most unusual vigilance Does not attend my taking . Whiles I may ' scape , I will preserve myself , and am bethought To take the basest and most poorest shape That ever penury in contempt of man Brought near to beast . My face I 'll grime with filth , Blanket my loins , elf all my hair in knots , And with presented nakedness outface The winds and persecutions of the sky . The country gives me proof and precedent Of Bedlam beggars , who with roaring voices Strike in their numbed and mortified bare arms Pins , wooden pricks , nails , sprigs of rosemary , And with this horrible object from low farms , Poor pelting villages , sheepcotes , and mills , Sometime with lunatic bans , sometime with prayers , Enforce their charity . " Poor Turlygod ! " " Poor Tom ! " -- That 's something yet . Edgar I nothing am .
O , touch me not . I am not Stephano , but a cramp .
Ay , " fashion " you may call it . Go to , go to .
All that is spoke is marred .
To fetch my poor distracted husband hence . Let us come in , that we may bind him fast And bear him home for his recovery .
Prithee , do not turn me about . My stomach is not constant .
Villain and he be many miles asunder . God pardon him ! I do , with all my heart , And yet no man like he doth grieve my heart .
Look to the lady .
An I thought that , I 'd forswear it . I 'll ride home tomorrow , Sir Toby .
How now , gentleman ? How is ' t with you ?
Verona , for a while I take my leave , To see my friends in Padua , but of all My best beloved and approved friend , Hortensio . And I trow this is his house . Here , sirrah Grumio . Knock , I say .
Unless for that he comes to be your liege , You cannot guess wherefore the Welshman comes . Thou wilt revolt and fly to him , I fear .
This will I also wear in my cap . If ever thou come to me and say , after tomorrow , " This is my glove , " by this hand I will take thee a box on the ear .
What would my lord ?
That time --Oh , times ! -- I laughed him out of patience , and that night I laughed him into patience . And next morn , Ere the ninth hour , I drunk him to his bed , Then put my tires and mantles on him , whilst I wore his sword Philippan .
Give Master Bardolph some wine , Davy .
Nothing , I ; but God send everyone their heart 's desire .
Ay . Saw you anything ?
Not yours , in good sooth ! Heart , you swear like a comfit-maker 's wife ! " Not you , in good sooth , " and " as true as I live , " and " as God shall mend me , " and " as sure as day " -- And givest such sarcenet surety for thy oaths As if thou never walk 'st further than Finsbury . Swear me , Kate , like a lady as thou art , A good mouth-filling oath , and leave " in sooth , " And such protest of pepper - gingerbread , To velvet - guards and Sunday citizens . Come , sing .
What 's o'clock , Francis ?
Caesar , I shall .
' Tis deeply sworn . Sweet , leave me here awhile . My spirits grow dull , and fain I would beguile The tedious day with sleep .
Is the law of our side if I say " ay " ?
Why , this is a more exquisite song than the other .
Even just the sum that I do owe to you Is growing to me by Antipholus . And in the instant that I met with you , He had of me a chain . At five o'clock I shall receive the money for the same . Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house , I will discharge my bond and thank you too .
I did not see him since .
Iago beckons me . Now he begins the story .
Relenting fool and shallow , changing woman !
A peevish schoolboy , worthless of such honor , Joined with a masker and a reveler !
It waves me still . --Go on . I 'll follow thee .
Then God be blessed , it is the blessed sun . But sun it is not , when you say it is not , And the moon changes even as your mind . What you will have it named , even that it is , And so it shall be so for Katherine .
Sleep again , Lucius . --Sirrah Claudio ! Fellow thou , awake !
Why , ' tis a gull , a fool , a rogue , that now and then goes to the wars to grace himself at his return into London under the form of a soldier . And such fellows are perfect in the great commanders ' names , and they will learn you by rote where services were done -- at such and such a sconce , at such a breach , at such a convoy ; who came off bravely , who was shot , who disgraced , what terms the enemy stood on . And this they con perfectly in the phrase of war , which they
As great to me as late . And supportable To make the dear loss have I means much weaker Than you may call to comfort you , for I Have lost my daughter .
Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made , and the garland too , for the garland he might have worn himself and the rod he might have bestowed on you , who , as I take it , have stolen his birds ' nest .
I do believe it , and I ask your pardon . Will you , I pray , demand that demi - devil Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body ?
And I hear , moreover , his Highness is fallen into this same whoreson apoplexy .
I pray you , husband , be not so disquiet . The meat was well , if you were so contented .
You may to me , and ' tis most meet you should .
What is your pleasure , madam ? How is ' t with you ?
And why , my Lady Wisdom ? Hold your tongue , Good prudence . Smatter with your gossips , go .
Well , go to . Very well .
Well , hie thee to thy lord . I kiss his hand . My letter will resolve him of my mind . Farewell .
I beseech you , sir , go . My young master doth expect your reproach .
And terms compulsatory , those foresaid lands So by his father lost . And this , I take it , Is the main motive of our preparations , The source of this our watch , and the chief head Of this posthaste and rummage in the land .
It is so . The Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of Leonato .
I thank you , sir . Know you what Caesar means to do with me ?
In troth , I think thou wouldst not .
Alack , for mercy !
Madam , not yet . I go to take my stand To see him pass on to the Capitol .
Here comes Baptista . Set your countenance , sir .
Your speech is passion . But pray you stir No embers up . Here comes the noble Antony .
But soft you , let me be . Pluck up , my heart , and be sad . Did he not say my brother was fled ?
I will fetch off my bottle , though I be o'er ears for my labor .
Faith , I can cut a caper .
This blue-eyed hag was hither brought with child And here was left by th ' sailors . Thou , my slave , As thou report 'st thyself , wast then her servant . And , for thou wast a spirit too delicate To act her earthy and abhorred commands , Refusing her grand hests , she did confine thee , By help of her more potent ministers And in her most unmitigable rage , Into a cloven pine , within which rift Imprisoned thou didst painfully remain A dozen years ; within which space she died And left thee there , where thou didst vent thy groans As fast as mill wheels strike . Then was this island -- Save for the son that she did litter here , A freckled whelp hag-born -- not honored with A human shape .
I am stuffed , cousin . I cannot smell .
To me , sir ? Why , you gave no gold to me !
Or of a courtier , which could say , " Good morrow , sweet lord ! " " How dost thou , good lord ? " This might be my Lord Such - a - one that praised my Lord Such - a - one 's horse when he meant to beg it , might it not ?
How now ! What do you here alone ?
Ay , my good lord .
The nature of bad news infects the teller .
That ever holds . Who riseth from a feast With that keen appetite that he sits down ? Where is the horse that doth untread again His tedious measures with the unbated fire That he did pace them first ? All things that are , Are with more spirit chased than enjoyed . How like a younger or a prodigal The scarfed bark puts from her native bay , Hugged and embraed by the strumpet wind ! How like the prodigal doth she return , With overweathered ribs and ragged sails Lean , rent , and beggared by the strumpet wind !
I come , Master Shallow ; I come , Master Shallow .
Good gentlemen , look fresh and merrily . Let not our looks put on our purposes , But bear it as our Roman actors do , With untired spirits and formal constancy . And so good morrow to you every one .
Well thought on . Take my sword . The captain -- Give it the captain .
Ay , but he 'll have but a year in all these ducats . He 's a very fool and a prodigal .
Ha , ha , ha !
His name is Romeo , and a Montague , The only son of your great enemy .
Hail .
If I did love you in my master 's flame , With such a suffering , such a deadly life , In your denial I would find no sense ; I would not understand it .
She 's not fourteen .
Good e' en , brother .
Where is he ?
Where ?
You say you 'll marry me if I be willing ?
I had no judgment when to her I swore .
Oh , I have heard him speak of that same brother , And he did render him the most unnatural That lived amongst men .
