I would he knew that I had saved his brother . Take thou the fee , and tell him what I say , For I repent me that the duke is slain .
Where is the Earl ?
For one of them , she 's in hell already and burns poor souls . For the other , I owe her money , and whether she be damned for that I know not .
He wonders to what end you have assembled Such troops of citizens to come to him , His grace not being warned thereof before . He fears , my lord , you mean no good to him .
O , teach me how you look and with what art You sway the motion of Demetrius ' heart .
Peace be with us , lest we be heavier .
Welcome , Ancient Pistol . Here , Pistol , I charge you with a cup of sack . Do you discharge upon mine hostess .
Singing Where is the life that late I led -- Where are those --Sit down , Kate , and welcome . -- Soud , soud , soud , soud !
To his father , that so tenderly and entirely loves him . Heaven and earth ! Edmund , seek him out , wind me into him , I pray you . Frame the business after your own wisdom . I would unstate myself to be in a due resolution .
This is the end of the charge . You , constable , are to present the Prince 's own person . If you meet the Prince in the night , you may stay him .
Yea , and the best person too . And he is a very paramour for a sweet voice .
I 'll strike and cry , " Take all . "
Would not a pair of these have bred , sir ?
How ? Nothing will come of nothing . Speak again .
Very well . What would you ?
I read that I profess , The Art to Love .
A most courteous exposition .
This is above all strangeness . Upon the crown o ' th ' cliff , what thing was that Which parted from you ?
He 's scarce awake . Let him alone awhile .
You have been a boggler ever . But when we in our viciousness grow hard -- Oh , misery on ' t ! -- the wise gods seel our eyes , In our own filth drop our clear judgments , make us Adore our errors , laugh at 's while we strut To our confusion .
That 's a certain text .
When he stands where I am and sees you there .
Yet , countrymen , O , yet hold up your heads !
Sometimes we see a cloud that 's dragonish , A vapor sometime like a bear or lion , A towered citadel , a pendant rock , A forked mountain , or blue promontory With trees upon ' t that nod unto the world And mock our eyes with air . Thou hast seen these signs . They are black vesper 's pageants .
Alas ! For whose sake did I that ill deed ? For Edward , for my brother , for his sake . He sends you not to murder me for this , For in that sin he is as deep as I. If God will be avenged for this deed , O , know you yet He doth it publicly ! Take not the quarrel from His powerful arm ; He needs no indirect or lawless course To cut off those that have offended Him .
Go thou with me , and let me counsel thee .
What stay had I but Edward ? And he 's gone .
We have scorched the snake , not killed it . She 'll close and be herself whilst our poor malice Remains in danger of her former tooth . But let the frame of things disjoint , both the worlds suffer , Ere we will eat our meal in fear , and sleep In the affliction of these terrible dreams That shake us nightly . Better be with the dead , Whom we , to gain our peace , have sent to peace , Than on the torture of the mind to lie In restless ecstasy . Duncan is in his grave . After life 's fitful fever he sleeps well . Treason has done his worst ; nor steel nor poison , Malice domestic , foreign levy , nothing Can touch him further .
I am glad on ' t . I desire no more delight Than to be under sail and gone tonight .
Make thee a fortune from me .
Ho , no , no , no , no . My meaning in saying he is a good man is to have you understand me that he is sufficient . Yet his means are in supposition . He hath an argosy bound to Tripolis , another to the Indies . I understand moreover , upon the Rialto , he hath a third at Mexico , a fourth for England , and other ventures he hath squandered abroad .
Nay , rather persuade him to hold his hands .
Alack , ' tis he . Why , he was met even now As mad as the vexed sea , singing aloud , Crowned with rank fumiter and furrow - weeds , With burdocks , hemlock , nettles , cuckoo - flowers , Darnel , and all the idle weeds that grow In our sustaining corn . --A century send forth . Search every acre in the high - grown field , And bring him to our eye .
Fie on thee ! I can tell what thou wouldst do .
She Phoebes me . Mark how the tyrant writes . Art thou god to shepherd turned , That a maiden 's heart hath burned ? Can a woman rail thus ?
And I for Ganymede .
What is the matter , my lord ?
Of your complexion .
He took me by the wrist and held me hard . Then goes he to the length of all his arm , And , with his other hand thus o'er his brow , He falls to such perusal of my face As he would draw it . Long stayed he so .
His beard was grizzled , no ?
Praised be God , and not our strength , for it ! What is this castle called that stands hard by ?
You wrong me every way . You wrong me , Brutus . I said an elder soldier , not a better . Did I say " better " ?
Thou art inclined to sleep . ' Tis a good dullness , And give it way . I know thou canst not choose .
More company ! The fiend is strong within him .
What horrible fancy 's this ?
The quality of mercy is not strained . It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath . It is twice blessed : It blesseth him that gives and him that takes . ' Tis mightiest in the mightiest . It becomes The throned monarch better than his crown . His scepter shows the force of temporal power , The attribute to awe and majesty Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings , But mercy is above this sceptered sway . It is enthroned in the hearts of kings . It is an attribute to God himself . And earthly power doth then show likest God 's When mercy seasons justice . Therefore , Jew ,
When I came hither to transport the tidings , Which I have heavily borne , there ran a rumor Of many worthy fellows that were out ; Which was to my belief witnessed the rather For that I saw the tyrant 's power afoot . Now is the time of help . Your eye in Scotland Would create soldiers , make our women fight , To doff their dire distresses .
If your leisure served , I would speak with you .
Go bid thy mistress , when my drink is ready , She strike upon the bell . Get thee to bed .
Transported with no worse nor better guard But with a knave of common hire , a gondolier , To the gross clasps of a lascivious Moor , If this be known to you and your allowance , We then have done you bold and saucy wrongs . But if you know not this my manners tell me We have your wrong rebuke . Do not believe That , from the sense of all civility , I thus would play and trifle with your reverence . Your daughter I say again , hath made a gross revolt , Tying her duty , beauty , wit , and fortunes In an extravagant and wheeling stranger Of here and everywhere . Straight satisfy yourself . If she be in her chamber or your house , Let loose on me the justice of the state For thus deluding you .
How ? The Prince is a jack , a sneak - up . ' Sblood , an he were here , I would cudgel him like a dog if he would say so .
Well then , no more but this : go , gentle Catesby , And , as it were far off , sound thou Lord Hastings How he doth stand affected to our purpose And summon him tomorrow to the Tower To sit about the coronation . If thou dost find him tractable to us , Encourage him and show him all our reasons . If he be leaden , icy , cold , unwilling , Be thou so too , and so break off the talk , And give us notice of his inclination ; For we tomorrow hold divided councils , Wherein thyself shalt highly be employed .
Nay , if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in Venice , thou wilt quake for this shortly .
Shall no man else be touched but only Caesar ?
My dismal scene I needs must act alone . Come , vial . What if this mixture do not work at all ? Shall I be married then tomorrow morning ? No , no . This shall forbid it . Lie thou there . What if it be a poison , which the friar Subtly hath ministered to have me dead , Lest in this marriage he should be dishonored Because he married me before to Romeo ? I fear it is . And yet , methinks , it should not , For he hath still been tried a holy man . How if , when I am laid into the tomb , I wake before the time that Romeo Come to redeem me ? There 's a fearful point . Shall I not , then , be stifled in the vault To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in , And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes ? Or , if I live , is it not very like The horrible conceit of death and night , Together with the terror of the place -- As in a vault , an ancient receptacle , Where for these many hundred years the bones Of all my buried ancestors are packed ; Where bloody Tybalt , yet but green in earth , Lies festering in his shroud ; where , as they say , At some hours in the night spirits resort -- ? Alack , alack , is it not like that I , So early waking , what with loathsome smells , And shrieks like mandrakes torn out of the earth , That living mortals , hearing them , run mad -- ?
Where is gentle Rivers , Vaughan , Grey ?
None but that ugly treason of mistrust Which makes me fear th ' enjoying of my love . There may as well be amity and life ' Tween snow and fire , as treason and my love .
Will you tell me , Master Shallow , how to choose a man ? Care I for the limb , the thews , the stature , bulk , and big assemblance of a man ? Give me the spirit , Master Shallow . Here 's Wart . You see what a ragged appearance it is . He shall
Will he woo her ? Ay , or I 'll hang her .
Call her forth , brother . Here 's the friar ready .
So hath the business that I come to speak of . Lord Mortimer of Scotland hath sent word That Douglas and the English rebels met The eleventh of this month at Shrewsbury . A mighty and a fearful head they are , If promises be kept on every hand , As ever offered foul play in the state .
My lord , you nod . You do not mind the play .
With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my Rosalind . So , adieu .
Nay , forward , old man . Do not break off so , For we may pity though not pardon thee .
Now , by my troth , if I had been remembered , I could have given my uncle' s grace a flout To touch his growth nearer than he touched mine .
It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other , if she will not discover it .
Is't good to soothe him in these contraries ?
That did I , my lord , and was accounted a good actor .
Fool , fool , fool , I say !
Ay , my lord , and of calfskins too .
Yes , I think he is not a pick - purse nor a horse - stealer , but for his verity in love , I do think him as concave as a covered goblet or a worm-eaten nut .
Dead , I think . --Help , uncle ! -- Hero , why , Hero ! Uncle ! Signor Benedick ! Friar !
Oh , from Italy ! Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears , That long time have been barren .
I am glad to see your highness .
What wouldst thou have with me ?
What would my lord , but that he may not have , Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable ? Cesario , you do not keep promise with me .
My lord , I will use them according to their desert .
What , fifty of my followers at a clap ? Within a fortnight ?
Full fathom five thy father lies . Of his bones are coral made . Those are pearls that were his eyes . Nothing of him that doth fade , But doth suffer a sea-change Into something rich and strange . Sea - nymphs hourly ring his knell
No , not I. I never gave you aught .
What , a feast , a feast ?
O the blessed gods ! So will you wish on me when the rash mood is on .
A murderer and a villain , A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe Of your precedent lord , a vice of kings , A cutpurse of the empire and the rule , That from a shelf the precious diadem stole , And put it in his pocket --
The concernancy , sir ? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more rawer breath ?
Proculeius , What thou hast done thy master Caesar knows , And he hath sent for thee . For the Queen , I 'll take her to my guard .
He shall , sir , an ' t please Him . There 's a letter for you , sir -- it comes from the ambassador that was bound for England -- if your name be Horatio , as I am let to know it is .
To answer by the method , in the first of his heart .
Let him bless thee too .
With what , i ' th ' name of God ?
By Cheshu , he is an ass , as in the world . I will verify as much in his beard . He has no more directions in the true disciplines of the wars , look you , of the Roman disciplines , than is a puppy dog .
Still live they , and forever let them last .
What , durst not tempt him ?
I cry thee mercy , then , for I did think That thou hadst called me all these bitter names .
Come , come , the cause . If arguing make us sweat , The proof of it will turn to redder drops . Look , I draw a sword against conspirators . When think you that the sword goes up again ? Never , till Caesar 's three and thirty wounds Be well avenged , or till another Caesar Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors .
Oh , heavens forfend !
I will reward thee Once for thy sprightly comfort and tenfold For thy good valor . Come thee on .
Bid them prepare within . I am to blame to be thus waited for . --Now , Cinna . --Now , Metellus . --What , Trebonius , I have an hour 's talk in store for you . Remember that you call on me today . Be near me , that I may remember you .
Peter Bullcalf o ' th ' green .
Is thy name Tyrrel ?
He 's as tall a man as any 's in Illyria .
I hope to see London once ere I die .
Thou 'st spoken right . ' Tis true . The wheel is come full circle . I am here .
How now , lad , is the wind in that door , i ' faith ? Must we all march ?
Oh , villain !
O god of love ! I know he doth deserve As much as may be yielded to a man , But Nature never framed a woman 's heart Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice . Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes , Misprizing what they look on , and her wit Values itself so highly that to her All matter else seems weak . She cannot love Nor take no shape nor project of affection She is so self - endeared .
O , sir , upon her nose , all o'er - embellished with rubies , carbuncles , sapphires , declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of Spain , who sent whole armadas of caracks to be ballast at her nose .
Nay , they will be kin to us , or they will fetch it from Japheth . But to the letter . Sir John alstaff , knight , to the son of the King nearest his father , Harry Prince of Wales , greeting .
Ha ?
Two things are to be done : My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress . I 'll set her on . Myself , the while , to draw the Moor apart And bring him jump when he may Cassio find Soliciting his wife . Ay , that 's the way . Dull not device by coldness and delay .
Nor today here you must not . Come again when you may .
Yea , marry , let 's see Bullcalf .
My lord , the first time that I ever saw him Methought he was a brother to your daughter . But , my good lord , this boy is forest - born And hath been tutored in the rudiments Of many desperate studies by his uncle , Whom he reports to be a great magician Obscured in the circle of this forest .
Good heart , at what ?
Ecoutez . Comment etes-vous appele ?
That will I do .
Nothing at all . It is a high - wrought flood . I cannot ' twixt the heaven and the main Descry a sail .
Prithee , nuncle , be contented . ' Tis a naughty night to swim in . Now a little fire in a wild field were like an old lecher 's heart -- a small spark , all the rest on 's body cold . Look , here comes a walking fire .
How !
I had as lief have my mistress a jade .
It was about to speak when the cock crew .
Pardon me , sir , the boldness is mine own , That being a stranger in this city here Do make myself a suitor to your daughter , Unto Bianca , fair and virtuous . Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me , In the preferment of the eldest sister . This liberty is all that I request , That , upon knowledge of my parentage , I may have welcome ' mongst the rest that woo And free access and favor as the rest . And toward the education of your daughters , I here bestow a simple instrument And this small packet of Greek and Latin books . BIONDELLO brings the gifts forward If you accept them , then their worth is great .
It pleases him to call you so , but he hath a Rosalind of a better leer than you .
Love give me strength , and strength shall help afford . Farewell , dear Father .
Nay , I 'll conjure too ! Romeo ! Humours , madman , passion , lover ! Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh ! Speak but one rhyme , and I am satisfied . Cry but " Ay me ! " Pronounce but " love " and " dove . " Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word , One nickname for her purblind son and heir , Young Abraham Cupid , he that shot so true When King Cophetua loved the beggar maid . -- He heareth not , he stirreth not , he moveth not . The ape is dead , and I must conjure him . -- I conjure thee by Rosaline 's bright eyes , By her high forehead and her scarlet lip , By her fine foot , straight leg , and quivering thigh , And the demesnes that there adjacent lie , That in thy likeness thou appear to us .
Sweet marjoram .
What is that noise ?
Take the fool away .
God help poor souls ! How idly do they talk !
O my lord , my lord , I have been so affrighted !
Your answer , sir , is enigmatical . But for my will , my will is your goodwill May stand with ours , this day to be conjoined In the state of honorable marriage -- In which , good Friar , I shall desire your help .
If we should fail ?
Tear him for his bad verses ! Tear him for his bad verses !
Let me speak like yourself and lay a sentence Which , as a grise or step , may help these lovers . When remedies are past , the griefs are ended By seeing the worst , which late on hopes depended .
What do you call the play ?
Why , our battalia trebles that account . Besides , the king 's name is a tower of strength Which they upon the adverse party want . Up with the tent ! --Come , noble gentlemen , Let us survey the vantage of the ground . Call for some men of sound direction . Let 's lack no discipline , make no delay , For , lords , tomorrow is a busy day .
Emilia , come . --Be as your fancies teach you . Whate'er you be , I am obedient .
Give me your hand . This hand is moist , my lady .
When will he be here ?
I cry your worships ' mercy , heartily . --I beseech your worship 's name .
Why , my young cousin ? It is good to grow .
Spirit , We must prepare to meet with Caliban .
Thou whoreson mad compound of majesty , ( indicating DOLL ) by this light flesh and corrupt blood , thou art welcome .
By God , thou hast deceived me , Lancaster . I did not think thee lord of such a spirit . Before , I loved thee as a brother , John , But now , I do respect thee as my soul .
Marry , I will , and this is wisely done .
Gifts that God gives .
I must eat my dinner . This island 's mine , by Sycorax my mother , Which thou takest from me . When thou camest first , Thou strok 'st me and made much of me , wouldst give me Water with berries in ' t , and teach me how To name the bigger light , and how the less , That burn by day and night . And then I loved thee And showed thee all the qualities o ' th ' isle , The fresh springs , brine pits , barren place and fertile . Cursed be I that did so ! All the charms Of Sycorax , toads , beetles , bats , light on you ! For I am all the subjects that you have , Which first was mine own king . And here you sty me In this hard rock , whiles you do keep from me The rest o ' th ' island .
Yes , you are . O Cassius , if you could But win the noble Brutus to our party --
Mark Antony --
Oh , heaven have mercy on me !
They are all welcome . What watchful cares do interpose themselves Betwixt your eyes and night ?
That year indeed he was troubled with a rheum . What willingly he did confound he wailed , Believe ' t , till I wept too .
Help , ho ! Murder ! Help !
Bear him ashore . --I 'll pledge it for him , Pompey .
Boy , tell him I am deaf .
Come , Casca , you and I will yet ere day See Brutus at his house . Three parts of him Is ours already , and the man entire Upon the next encounter yields him ours .
Look not pale , Bianca . Thy father will not frown .
No , it is Casca , one incorporate To our attempts . Am I not stayed for , Cinna ?
O Tranio , till I found it to be true , I never thought it possible or likely . But see , while idly I stood looking on , I found the effect of love in idleness And now in plainness do confess to thee That art to me as secret and as dear As Anna to the Queen of Carthage was , Tranio , I burn , I pine , I perish , Tranio , If I achieve not this young modest girl . Counsel me , Tranio , for I know thou canst . Assist me , Tranio , for I know thou wilt .
I promise you I scarcely know myself . Hear you the news abroad ?
Some of them will fall tomorrow , I hope .
He , my lord ; but he hath since done good service at Shrewsbury , and , as I hear , is now going with some charge to the Lord John of Lancaster .
Sir Christopher , tell Richmond this from me : That in the sty of the most deadly boar My son George Stanley is franked up in hold ; If I revolt , off goes young George 's head ; The fear of that holds off my present aid . So get three gone . Commend me to thy lord . Withal , say that the queen hath heartily consented He should espouse Elizabeth her daughter . But , tell me , where is princely Richmond now ?
We judge no less . --Uncle of Exeter , Enlarge the man committed yesterday That railed against our person . We consider It was excess of wine that set him on , And on his more advice we pardon him .
Yea , my lord . I thank it , poor fool , it keeps on the windy side of care . My cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her heart .
I rest much bounden to you . Fare you well .
Know 'st thou Gower ?
By Hercules , I think I am i ' th ' right .
Have you heard the argument ? Is there no offense in ' t ?
Yet they are not joined . Where yond pine does stand I shall discover all . I 'll bring thee word Straight how ' tis like to go .
Patience , good Katherine , and Baptista too . Upon my life , Petruchio means but well , Whatever fortune stays him from his word : Though he be blunt , I know him passing wise ; Though he be merry , yet withal he 's honest .
' Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue . I am weary of you .
Plantagenet .
Is this the man ? Is ' t you , sir , that know things ?
Begin these woodbirds but to couple now ?
I have not deserved this .
He " Murder ! " cries and help from Athens calls . Their sense thus weak , lost with their fears thus strong , Made senseless things begin to do them wrong . For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch , Some sleeves , some hats -- from yielders all things catch . I led them on in this distracted fear And left sweet Pyramus translated there . When in that moment so it came to pass , Titania waked and straightway loved an ass .
We will greet the time .
They give this greeting to the citadel . This likewise is a friend .
No , but the barber 's man hath been seen with him , and the old ornament of his cheek hath already stuffed tennis balls .
No , madam , he does nothing but smile . Your ladyship were best to have some guard about you if he come , for sure the man is tainted in 's wits .
Come hither , Francis .
No , faith , not a jot . But to follow him thither with modesty enough , and likelihood to lead it , as thus : Alexander died , Alexander was buried , Alexander returneth to dust , the dust is earth , of earth we make loam -- and why of that loam , whereto he was converted , might they not stop a beer barrel ? Imperious Caesar , dead and turned to clay , Might stop a hole to keep the wind away . Oh , that that earth , which kept the world in awe , Should patch a wall t ' expel the winter 's flaw ! But soft , but soft a while .
Ay , pilgrim , lips that they must use in prayer .
Though well we may not pass upon his life Without the form of justice , yet our power Shall do a courtesy to our wrath , which men May blame , but not control . --Who 's there ? The traitor ?
And God defend but still I should stand so , So long as out of limit and true rule You stand against anointed majesty . But to my charge . The king hath sent to know The nature of your griefs , and whereupon You conjure from the breast of civil peace Such bold hostility , teaching his duteous land Audacious cruelty . If that the king Have any way your good deserts forgot , Which he confesseth to be manifold , He bids you name your griefs , and with all speed You shall have your desires with interest And pardon absolute for yourself and these Herein misled by your suggestion .
What , my lord ?
Me they shall feel while I am able to stand , and ' tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh .
I 'll have my bond . I will not hear thee speak . I 'll have my bond , and therefore speak no more . I 'll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool To shake the head , relent and sigh , and yield To Christian intercessors . Follow not . I 'll have no speaking . I will have my bond .
You do climb up it now . Look how we labor .
Sweet knight , I kiss thy neaf . What , we have seen the seven stars .
Methought thy very gait did prophesy A royal nobleness . I must embrace thee . Let sorrow split my heart if ever I Did hate thee or thy father .
Let her hang me . He that is well hanged in this world needs to fear no colors .
Was ever match clapped up so suddenly ?
Faith , there has been much to do on both sides , and the nation holds it no sin to tar them to controversy . There was , for a while , no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question .
What need one ?
What have I done , that thou darest wag thy tongue In noise so rude against me ?
Oh , relation Too nice and yet too true !
In great measure .
I know they do , and I have well deserved it .
What from the cape can you discern at sea ?
What , can the devil speak true ?
It is no matter . His name 's Cinna . Pluck but his name out of his heart and turn him going .
Indeed ? Is ' t true ?
O Jesu , my lord , my lord --
My own flesh and blood to rebel !
But it was always yet the trick of our English nation , if they have a good thing , to make it too common . If ye will needs say I am an old man , you should give me rest . I would to God my name were not so terrible to the enemy as it is . I were better to be eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with perpetual motion .
Out , dunghill !
All this amazement can I qualify When after that the holy rites are ended I 'll tell you largely of fair Hero 's death . Meantime let wonder seem familiar , And to the chapel let us presently .
" Clarence is come -- false , fleeting , perjured Clarence , That stabbed me in the field by Tewkesbury . Seize on him , furies . Take him unto torment . " With that , methoughts , a legion of foul fiends Environed me and howled in mine ears Such hideous cries that with the very noise I trembling waked , and for a season after Could not believe but that I was in hell , Such terrible impression made my dream .
The deep - revolving witty Buckingham No more shall be the neighbor to my counsels Hath he so long held out with me , untired , And stops he now for breath ? Well , be it so .
I 'll see thee hanged on Sunday first .
Worthy Othello , I am hurt to danger . Your officer Iago can inform you , While I spare speech , which something now offends me , Of all that I do know . Nor know I aught By me that 's said or done amiss this night , Unless self - charity be sometimes a vice , And to defend ourselves it be a sin When violence assails us .
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet . There he is .
No.
Where have I been ? Nay , how now , where are you ? Master , has my fellow Tranio stolen your clothes ? Or you stolen his ? Or both ? Pray , what 's the news ?
Caius Ligarius , that Metellus spake of . -- Boy , stand aside . --Caius Ligarius , how ?
What news ?
I prithee , Strato , stay thou by thy lord . Thou art a fellow of a good respect . Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it . Hold then my sword and turn away thy face While I do run upon it . Wilt thou , Strato ?
No other harm but loss of such a lord .
Madam , I had rather seal my lips Than to my peril speak that which is not .
What , jealous Oberon? --Fairies , skip hence . I have forsworn his bed and company .
News , lads , Our wars are done ! The desperate tempest hath so banged the Turks , That their designment halts . A noble ship of Venice Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance On most part of their fleet .
Dieu de batailles , where have they this mettle ? Is not their climate foggy , raw , and dull , On whom , as in despite , the sun looks pale , Killing their fruit with frowns ? Can sodden water , A drench for sur - reined jades , their barley broth ,
It shall be done . I will arraign them straight . Come , sit thou here , most learned justicer . Thou , sapient sir , sit here . --Now , you she - foxes --
Is ' t possible ?
Well , let it strike .
Some treason , masters . Yet stand close .
A foolish thought , to say a sorry sight .
Sweet Portia , If you did know to whom I gave the ring , If you did know for whom I gave the ring , And would conceive for what I gave the ring , And how unwillingly I left the ring When naught would be accepted but the ring , You would abate the strength of your displeasure .
I fear me both are false .
Peto , how now , what news ?
So , This is to horse . Adieu , noble Agrippa .
I do not think it good .
Conceit , more rich in matter than in words , Brags of his substance , not of ornament . They are but beggars that can count their worth . But my true love is grown to such excess I cannot sum up sum of half my wealth .
Come , follow . --Speak not for him .
Thou hast not , cousin . Prithee , be cheerful . Know 'st thou not the duke Hath banished me , his daughter ?
Approach and speak .
For the letter that begins them all , H.
brutish ! Go , sirrah , seek him . I 'll apprehend him . Abominable villain ! Where is he ?
What sayst thou , my dear Nurse ?
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee And his commission to employ those soldiers , So levied as before , against the Polack , With an entreaty , herein further shown , That it might please you to give quiet pass Through your dominions for this enterprise , On such regards of safety and allowance As therein are set down . ( gives CLAUDIUS a document
Go , captain , and deliver to the army This news of peace . Let them have pay , and part . I know it will well please them . Hie thee , captain .
For a hawk , a horse , or a husband ?
Madam , I heard her speak . She is low - voiced .
An oath of mickle might , and fury shall abate . Give me thy fist , thy forefoot to me give . Thy spirits are most tall .
Note this before my notes : There 's not a note of mine that 's worth the noting .
Though no man be assured what grace to find , You stand in coldest expectation . I am the sorrier ; would ' twere otherwise .
A comfortable doctrine , and much may be said of it . Where lies your text ?
Why , sir , you know this is your wedding day . First were we sad , fearing you would not come , Now sadder that you come so unprovided . Fie , doff this habit , shame to your estate , An eyesore to our solemn festival .
No , my lord .
Why , for that too .
And yet it is almost ' gainst my conscience .
I think I told your lordship a year since how much I am in the favor of Margaret , the waiting gentlewoman to Hero .
Indeed , that is out of the air . How pregnant sometimes his replies are . A happiness that often madness hits on , which reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of . I will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between him and my daughter . -- My honorable lord , I will most humbly take my leave of you .
Well said . That was laid on with a trowel .
Mark you this , Bassanio , The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose . An evil soul producing holy witness Is like a villain with a smiling cheek , A goodly apple rotten at the heart . Oh , what a goodly outside falsehood hath !
How now , friend Eros !
My Oberon , what visions have I seen ! Methought I was enamored of an ass .
Why , I am sure , if he forfeit thou wilt not take his flesh . What 's that good for ?
Certain ones , then .
Yet once again proclaim it publicly , If any friend will pay the sum for him , He shall not die ; so much we tender him .
Nay , let him alone . I 'll go another way to work with him . I 'll have an action of battery against him if there be any law in Illyria . Though I struck him first , yet it 's no matter for that .
What 's the news , my good lord ?
Here comes Sir Oliver . --Sir Oliver Martext , you are well met . Will you dispatch us here under this tree , or shall we go with you to your chapel ?
Why , this is very midsummer madness .
The Prince is here at hand . Pleaseth your lordship To meet his Grace just distance ' tween our armies .
Indeed , I think the young King loves you not .
Why , sir , I pray , are not the streets as free For me as for you ?
Come .
Not so , I do beseech your Majesty .
Mercutio , thou consort 'st with Romeo .
As by lot , God wot , and then , you know , It came to pass , as most like it was -- The first row of the pious chanson will show you more , for look where my abridgement comes .
I am loath to tell you what I would you knew .
Nay , as they dare . I will bite my thumb at them , which is a disgrace to them , if they bear it .
God 's body , the turkeys in my pannier are quite starved . -- What , ostler ! A plague on thee ! Hast thou never an eye in thy head ? Canst not hear ? An ' twere not as good deed as drink to break the pate on thee , I am a very villain . Come , and be hanged . Hast no faith in thee ?
Say wherefore didst thou lock me forth today . And why dost thou deny the bag of gold ?
Gentle Mercutio , put thy rapier up .
Dost thou hear , Iago ? I will be found most cunning in my patience , But --dost thou hear?- -most bloody .
No , truly .
You 're much deceived . In nothing am I changed But in my garments .
Alack the day . She 's dead , she 's dead , she 's dead !
That 's not amiss , But yet keep time in all . Will you withdraw ?
Had I but died an hour before this chance , I had lived a blessed time , for from this instant There 's nothing serious in mortality . All is but toys . Renown and grace is dead . The wine of life is drawn , and the mere lees Is left this vault to brag of .
Hark ! I hear their drum . Fight , gentlemen of England . --Fight , bold yeomen . -- Draw , archers , draw your arrows to the head . -- Spur your proud horses hard , and ride in blood . Amaze the welkin with your broken staves --
Prepare you , generals . The enemy comes on in gallant show . Their bloody sign of battle is hung out , And something to be done immediately .
Put up your sword . If this young gentleman Have done offence , I take the fault on me . If you offend him , I for him defy you .
Make way there ! Caesar !
He poisons him i ' th ' garden for 's estate . His name 's Gonzago . The story is extant , and writ in choice Italian . You shall see anon how the murderer gets the love of Gonzago 's wife .
E' en so , my lord .
I think I can discover him , if you please To get good guard and go along with me .
There 's no trust , No faith , no honesty in men . All perjured , All forsworn , all naught , all dissemblers . Ah , where 's my man?- -Give me some aqua vitae . -- These griefs , these woes , these sorrows make me old . Shame come to Romeo !
See , where he comes . So please you , step aside . I 'll know his grievance or be much denied .
There is a brief , how many sports are ripe . Make choice of which your highness will see first .
' Tis vile , unless it may be quaintly ordered , And better in my mind not undertook .
Believe what ?
I do not like your faults .
Nay , I will give thee a kiss . Now pray thee , love , stay .
I saw him not .
And , gentle master , I received no gold . But I confess , sir , that we were locked out .
Look here upon this picture and on this , The counterfeit presentment of two brothers . See , what a grace was seated on this brow ? Hyperion 's curls , the front of Jove himself , An eye like Mars to threaten and command , A station like the herald Mercury New - lighted on a heaven - kissing hill -- A combination and a form indeed Where every god did seem to set his seal
He set up his bills here in Messina and challenged Cupid at the flight , and my uncle' s Fool , reading the challenge , subscribed for Cupid and challenged him at the bird - bolt . I pray you , how many hath he killed and eaten in these wars ? But how many hath he killed ? For indeed I promised to eat all of his killing .
Why , there 's no remedy . ' Tis the curse of service . Preferment goes by letter and affection , And not by old gradation , where each second Stood heir to th ' first . Now sir , be judge yourself , Whether I in any just term am affined To love the Moor .
Come , let us to the castle . News , friends ! Our wars are done , the Turks are drowned . How does my old acquaintance of this isle?- - Honey , you shall be well desired in Cyprus , I have found great love amongst them . O my sweet , I prattle out of fashion , and I dote In mine own comforts . --I prithee , good Iago , Go to the bay and disembark my coffers . Bring thou the master to the citadel . He is a good one , and his worthiness Does challenge much respect . --Come , Desdemona , Once more , well met at Cyprus .
You see me , Lord Bassanio , where I stand Such as I am . Though for myself alone I would not be ambitious in my wish To wish myself much better , yet for you I would be trebled twenty times myself -- A thousand times more fair , ten thousand times more rich -- That only to stand high in your account I might in virtue , beauties , livings , friends Exceed account . But the full sum of me Is sum of something which , to term in gross , Is an unlessoned girl , unschooled , unpracticed ; Happy in this -- she is not yet so old But she may learn . Happier than this -- She is not bred so dull but she can learn . Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit Commits itself to yours to be directed As from her lord , her governor , her king . Myself and what is mine to you and yours Is now converted . But now I was the lord Of this fair mansion , master of my servants , Queen o'er myself . And even now , but now , This house , these servants , and this same myself Are yours , my lord 's . I give them with this ring , Which when you part from , lose , or give away , Let it presage the ruin of your love
Wilt thou lay hands on me , villain ?
The tyrannous and bloody act is done , The most arch deed of piteous massacre That ever yet this land was guilty of . Dighton and Forrest , whom I did suborn To do this piece of ruthless butchery , Albeit they were fleshed villains , bloody dogs , Melted with tenderness and mild compassion , Wept like two children in their deaths ' sad story . " O thus " quoth Dighton , " lay those gentle babes . " " Thus , thus , " quoth Forrest , " girdling one another Within their alabaster innocent arms . Their lips were four red roses on a stalk , And in their summer beauty kissed each other . A book of prayers on their pillow lay , Which once , " quoth Forrest , " almost changed my mind , But O , the devil -- " There the villain stopped ; When Dighton thus told on : " We smothered The most replenished sweet work of nature That from the prime creation e' er she framed . " Hence both are gone with conscience and remorse ; They could not speak ; and so I left them both To bear this tidings to the bloody king .
Yea , but ' tis like that they will know us by our horses , by our habits , and by every other appointment to be ourselves .
Anon , Francis ? No , Francis , but tomorrow , Francis ; or , Francis , o ' Thursday ; or indeed , Francis , when thou wilt . But , Francis --
Wouldst thou withdraw it ? For what purpose , love ?
In the secret parts of Fortune ? Oh , most true . She is a strumpet . What news ?
There 's matter in these sighs , these profound heaves . You must translate . ' Tis fit we understand them . Where is your son ?
Ay , millstones , as he lessoned us to weep .
A bawd , a bawd , a bawd ! So ho !
How intend you , " practiced " ?
Thou most lying slave , Whom stripes may move , not kindness ! I have used thee , Filth as thou art , with human care , and lodged thee In mine own cell till thou didst seek to violate The honor of my child .
What is he that you ask for , niece ?
Another general shout ! I do believe that these applauses are For some new honors that are heaped on Caesar .
Indeed , without an oath I 'll make an end on ' t : By Gis and by Saint Charity , Alack , and fie , for shame ! Young men will do ' t , if they come to ' t . By Cock , they are to blame . Quoth she , " Before you tumbled me , You promised me to wed . " He answers , " So would I ha ' done , by yonder sun , An thou hadst not come to my bed . "
Can heaven be so envious ?
Here 's to thee , Menas !
Ay , thou wouldst be gone to join with Richmond , But I 'll not trust thee .
Thou thinkest I am in sport . I pray thee tell me truly how thou lik 'st her .
Welcome then .
The Lord of Stafford dear today hath bought Thy likeness , for instead of thee , King Harry , This sword hath ended him . So shall it thee , Unless thou yield thee as my prisoner .
I say a devil . Think 'st thou , Hortensio , though her father be very rich , any man is so very a fool to be married to hell ?
He shall see none to fear .
O day and night , but this is wondrous strange !
Sirrah , you were best take my coxcomb .
Why , that 's spoken like an honest drover ; so they sell bullocks . But did you think the Prince would have served you thus ?
I have a gammon of bacon and two races of ginger to be delivered as far as Charing Cross .
I mean , to go , sir , to enter .
Armed , my lord .
Good gentlemen , he hath much talked of you . And sure I am two men there are not living To whom he more adheres . If it will please you To show us so much gentry and good will As to expend your time with us awhile For the supply and profit of our hope , Your visitation shall receive such thanks As fits a king 's remembrance .
But , for mine own part , my lord , I could be well contented to be there , in respect of the love I bear your house . He could be contented ; why is he not , then ? In respect of the love he bears our house -- he shows in this he loves his own barn better than he loves our house . Let me see some more . The purpose you undertake is dangerous . Why , that 's certain . ' Tis dangerous to take a cold , to sleep , to drink ; but I tell you , my lord fool , out of this nettle , danger , we pluck this flower , safety . The purpose you undertake is dangerous , the friends you have named uncertain , the time itself unsorted , and your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so great an opposition . Say you so , say you so ? I say unto you again , you are a shallow , cowardly hind , and you lie . What a lack - brain is this ! By the Lord , our plot is a good plot as ever was laid , our friends true and constant -- a good plot , good friends , and full of expectation ; an excellent plot , very good friends . What a frosty - spirited rogue is this ! Why , my Lord of York commends the plot and the general course of the action . Zounds , an I were now by this rascal , I could brain him with his lady 's fan . Is there not my father , my uncle , and myself ? Lord Edmund Mortimer , my Lord of York , and Owen Glendower ? Is there not besides the Douglas ? Have I not all their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the next month , and are they not some of them set forward already ? What a pagan rascal is this -- an infidel ! Ha , you shall see now in very sincerity of fear and cold heart , will he to the King and lay open all our proceedings . O , I could divide myself and go to buffets , for moving such a dish of skim milk with so honorable an action ! Hang him , let him tell the King . We are prepared . I will set forward tonight .
Why did he so ?
O Lord , sir , I 'll be sworn upon all the books in England , I could find in my heart --
Not I , for this fair island . I do love Cassio well , and would do much To cure him of this evil --
Why then , God 's soldier be he ! Had I as many sons as I have hairs , I would not wish them to a fairer death . And so , his knell is knolled .
Ambassadors from Harry King of England Do crave admittance to your Majesty .
A horned man 's a monster and a beast .
God pardon thee . Yet let me wonder , Harry , At thy affections , which do hold a wing Quite from the flight of all thy ancestors . Thy place in council thou hast rudely lost , Which by thy younger brother is supplied , And art almost an alien to the hearts Of all the court and princes of my blood . The hope and expectation of thy time Is ruined , and the soul of every man Prophetically doth forethink thy fall . Had I so lavish of my presence been , So common - hackneyed in the eyes of men , So stale and cheap to vulgar company , Opinion , that did help me to the crown , Had still kept loyal to possession And left me in reputeless banishment , A fellow of no mark nor likelihood . By being seldom seen , I could not stir But like a comet I was wondered at ; That men would tell their children " This is he . " Others would say " Where ? Which is Bolingbroke ? " And then I stole all courtesy from heaven , And dressed myself in such humility That I did pluck allegiance from men 's hearts , Loud shouts and salutations from their mouths , Even in the presence of the crowned King . Thus did I keep my person fresh and new , My presence , like a robe pontifical , Ne'er seen but wondered at , and so my state , Seldom but sumptuous , showed like a feast And won by rareness such solemnity . The skipping King , he ambled up and down With shallow jesters and rash bavin wits , Soon kindled and soon burnt ; carded his state , Mingled his royalty with cap'ring fools ,
Now entertain conjecture of a time When creeping murmur and the poring dark Fills the wide vessel of the universe . From camp to camp , through the foul womb of night , The hum of either army stilly sounds , That the fixed sentinels almost receive The secret whispers of each other 's watch . Fire answers fire , and through their paly flames Each battle sees the other 's umbered face . Steed threatens steed , in high and boastful neighs Piercing the night 's dull ear ; and from the tents The armorers , accomplishing the knights , With busy hammers closing rivets up , Give dreadful note of preparation . The country cocks do crow , the clocks do toll , And , the third hour of drowsy morning named , Proud of their numbers and secure in soul , The confident and overlusty French Do the low-rated English play at dice And chide the cripple , tardy - gaited night , Who like a foul and ugly witch doth limp So tediously away . The poor condemned English , Like sacrifices , by their watchful fires Sit patiently and inly ruminate The morning 's danger ; and their gesture sad , Investing lank - lean cheeks and war - worn coats , Presenteth them unto the gazing moon So many horrid ghosts . Oh , now , who will behold The royal captain of this ruined band
He cannot speak , my lord .
Now , cousin , wherefore stands our army still ?
Bardolph !
Alas , poor Romeo ! He is already dead , stabbed with a white wench 's black eye , shot through the ear with a love song , the very pin of his heart cleft with the blind bow - boy 's butt shaft . And is he a man to encounter Tybalt ?
A man that all his time Hath founded his good fortunes on your love , Shared dangers with you --
Do not swear at all . Or , if thou wilt , swear by thy gracious self , Which is the god of my idolatry , And I 'll believe thee .
Well , Brutus , thou art noble . Yet I see Thy honorable mettle may be wrought From that it is disposed . Therefore it is meet That noble minds keep ever with their likes , For who so firm that cannot be seduced ? Caesar doth bear me hard , but he loves Brutus . If I were Brutus now and he were Cassius , He should not humor me . I will this night , In several hands , in at his windows throw , As if they came from several citizens , Writings all tending to the great opinion That Rome holds of his name , wherein obscurely Caesar 's ambition shall be glanced at . And after this let Caesar seat him sure , For we will shake him , or worse days endure .
Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of beauty .
I can speak English , lord , as well as you , For I was trained up in the English court , Where being but young I framed to the harp Many an English ditty lovely well And gave the tongue a helpful ornament -- A virtue that was never seen in you .
Holla , Barnardo .
All comfort that the dark night can afford Be to thy person , noble father - in - law . Tell me , how fares our loving mother ?
Hold , take these keys , and fetch more spices , Nurse .
Horatio , thou art e' en as just a man As e' er my conversation coped withal .
Would they were basilisks to strike thee dead .
So say I. Methinks you are sadder .
Call them again , sweet prince . Accept their suit . If you deny them , all the land will rue it .
Madam , within -- but never man so changed . I told him of the army that was landed . He smiled at it . I told him you were coming . His answer was " The worse . " Of Gloucester 's treachery And of the loyal service of his son , When I informed him , then he called me " sot , " And told me I had turned the wrong side out . What most he should dislike seems pleasant to him ; What like , offensive .
Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself . Make those that do offend you suffer too .
Ay , too gentle .
I am in this commanded to deliver The noble duke of Clarence to your hands . I will not reason what is meant hereby Because I will be guiltless from the meaning . There lies the duke asleep , and there the keys . He hands them the keys I 'll to the king and signify to him That thus I have resigned my charge to you .
How now , my friend , why dost thou look so pale ?
Ay , my good lord , and no one in the presence But his red color hath forsook his cheeks .
Sweet lord , if your lordship were at leisure , I should impart a thing to you from His Majesty .
This new and gorgeous garment majesty Sits not so easy on me as you think . -- Brothers , you mix your sadness with some fear . This is the English , not the Turkish court ; Not Amurath an Amurath succeeds , But Harry Harry . Yet be sad , good brothers , For , by my faith , it very well becomes you . Sorrow so royally in you appears That I will deeply put the fashion on And wear it in my heart . Why then , be sad . But entertain no more of it , good brothers , Than a joint burden laid upon us all . For me , by heaven , I bid you be assured , I 'll be your father and your brother too . Let me but bear your love , I ' ll bear your cares . Yet weep that Harry 's dead , and so will I , But Harry lives that shall convert those tears By number into hours of happiness .
I make them ? Gluttony and diseases make them ; I make them not .
Cousin of Buckingham and sage , grave men , Since you will buckle fortune on my back , To bear her burden , whe'er I will or no , I must have patience to endure the load ; But if black scandal or foul - faced reproach Attend the sequel of your imposition , Your mere enforcement shall acquittance me From all the impure blots and stains thereof , For God doth know , and you may partly see , How far I am from the desire of this .
I shall , my lord .
--What , ho ? They are all forth?- -Well , I will walk myself To County Paris , to prepare him up Against tomorrow . My heart is wondrous light Since this same wayward girl is so reclaimed .
I thank you for your pains and courtesy .
Come , come , my boy . We will to sanctuary . Madam , farewell .
I 'll help you , Sir Toby , because we 'll be dressed together .
Sirrah , do I owe you a thousand pound ?
Dolor comes to him , indeed . You have spoken truer than you purposed .
" What many men desire " -- that " many " may be meant By the fool multitude that choose by show , Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach ; Which pries not to th ' interior , but like the martlet Builds in the weather on the outward wall , Even in the force and road of casualty . I will not choose what many men desire Because I will not jump with common spirits And rank me with the barbarous multitudes . Why then , to thee , thou silver treasure house . Tell me once more what title thou dost bear . " Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves . " And well said too -- for who shall go about To cozen fortune and be honorable Without the stamp of merit ? Let none presume To wear an undeserved dignity . Oh , that estates , degrees and offices Were not derived corruptly , and that clear honor Were purchased by the merit of the wearer ! How many then should cover that stand bare ! How many be commanded that command ! How much low peasantry would then be gleaned From the true seed of honor ! And how much honor Picked from the chaff and ruin of the times To be new varnished ! Well , but to my choice . " Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves . " I will assume desert . --Give me a key for this , And instantly unlock my fortunes here .
Here , sir , as foolish as I was before .
I cannot tell if to depart in silence Or bitterly to speak in your reproof Best fitteth my degree or your condition . If not to answer , you might haply think Tongue - tied ambition , not replying , yielded To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty , Which fondly you would here impose on me . If to reprove you for this suit of yours , So seasoned with your faithful love to me , Then on the other side I checked my friends . Therefore , to speak , and to avoid the first , And then , in speaking , not to incur the last , Definitively thus I answer you : Your love deserves my thanks , but my desert Unmeritable shuns your high request . First , if all obstacles were cut away And that my path were even to the crown As the ripe revenue and due of birth , Yet so much is my poverty of spirit , So mighty and so many my defects , That I would rather hide me from my greatness , Being a bark to brook no mighty sea , Than in my greatness covet to be hid And in the vapor of my glory smothered . But , God be thanked , there is no need of me , And much I need to help you , were there need . The royal tree hath left us royal fruit , Which , mellowed by the stealing hours of time , Will well become the seat of majesty , And make , no doubt , us happy by his reign . On him I lay what you would lay on me , The right and fortune of his happy stars , Which God defend that I should wring from him .
I did her wrong --
Thou dost speak masterly . My life upon ' t , young though thou art , thine eye Hath stay 'd upon some favor that it loves . Hath it not , boy ?
He says his name is Master Fer .
How now , Pistol ?
Wounded it is , but with the eyes of a lady .
While you , sweet dear , prove mistress of my heart !
O sir , you had then left unseen a wonderful piece of work which not to have been blessed withal would have discredited your travel .
And I.
By what ? By any other house or person ? Of anything the image tell me that Hath kept with thy remembrance .
Do we so .
What , the commonwealth their boots ? Will she hold out water in foul way ?
I say , by sorcery he got this isle . From me he got it . If thy greatness will Revenge it on him -- for I know thou darest , But this thing dare not --
He 's married .
Ay , lord . She will become thy bed , I warrant . And bring thee forth brave brood .
Well , peace be with him that hath made us heavy .
My worthy Cawdor !
That 's not so good . He cannot like her long .
Here . Swear then how thou escapedst .
I do suspect I have done some offense That seems disgracious in the city 's eye , And that you come to reprehend my ignorance .
The air breathes upon us here most sweetly .
Nay , I prithee now , with most petitionary vehemence , tell me who it is .
Marry , sir , our watch tonight , excepting your Worship 's presence , ha ' ta'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in Messina .
I am to blame .
It may not be .
Whose tongue ?
Take it , brave York . Now , soldiers , march away , And how Thou pleasest , God , dispose the day .
Nor send you out o ' th ' way ?
In which array , brave soldier , doth he lie , Larding the plain , and by his bloody side , Yoke - fellow to his honor - owing wounds , The noble earl of Suffolk also lies . Suffolk first died , and York , all haggled over , Comes to him where in gore he lay insteeped And takes him by the beard , kisses the gashes That bloodily did yawn upon his face . And cries aloud , " Tarry , my cousin Suffolk . My soul shall thine keep company to heaven . Tarry , sweet soul , for mine ; then fly abreast , As in this glorious and well - foughten field We kept together in our chivalry . " Upon these words I came and cheered him up . He smiled me in the face , raught me his hand , And with a feeble grip , says " Dear my lord , Commend my service to my sovereign . " So did he turn , and over Suffolk 's neck
My name 's Macbeth .
Nay , gentle madam , to him , comfort him .
What claim lays she to thee ?
Come hither , Nurse . What is yond gentleman ?
What is the matter ?
I am agreed , and would I had given him the best horse inv Padua to begin his wooing that would thoroughly woo her , wed her , and bed her , and rid the house of her ! Come on .
Why , we will set forth before or after them , and appoint them a place of meeting , wherein it is at our pleasure to fail ; and then will they adventure upon the exploit themselves , which they shall have no sooner achieved but we 'll set upon them .
Draw thy sword , That if my speech offend a noble heart Thy arm may do thee justice . Here is mine . Behold : it is the privilege of mine honors , My oath , and my profession . I protest -- Maugre thy strength , youth , place , and eminence , Despite thy victor sword and fire - new fortune , Thy valor and thy heart -- thou art a traitor , False to thy gods , thy brother , and thy father , Conspirant ' gainst this high illustrious prince , And from th ' extremest upward of thy head To the descent and dust below thy foot A most toad - spotted traitor . Say thou " No , " This sword , this arm , and my best spirits are bent To prove upon thy heart , whereto I speak , Thou liest .
No. You 'll reveal it .
Good sir , this ring was given me by my wife . And when she put it on , she made me vow That I should neither sell nor give nor lose it .
Marry , and it shall be done tomorrow morning if I live . My lady would not lose him for more than I 'll say .
Look to the lady .
And , for unfelt imaginations , They often feel a world of restless cares , So that betwixt their titles and low name There 's nothing differs but the outward fame .
Perish the man whose mind is backward now !
Well , it shall be so . But there is two hard things : that is , to bring the moonlight into a chamber . For , you know , Pyramus and Thisbe meet by moonlight .
No more , I pray thee . I am half afeard Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee , Thou spend 'st such high - day wit in praising him . -- Come , come , Nerissa , for I long to see Quick Cupid 's post that comes so mannerly .
Peace , cousin , say no more . And now I will unclasp a secret book , And to your quick - conceiving discontents I 'll read you matter deep and dangerous , As full of peril and adventurous spirit As to o'erwalk a current roaring loud On the unsteadfast footing of a spear .
It may be so , for it is not mine own . -- Are you at leisure , holy Father , now , Or shall I come to you at evening mass ?
The clock struck nine when I did send the Nurse . In half an hour she promised to return . Perchance she cannot meet him . That 's not so . Oh , she is lame ! Love 's heralds should be thoughts , Which ten times faster glide than the sun 's beams , Driving back shadows over louring hills . Therefore do nimble - pinioned doves draw love And therefore hath the wind - swift Cupid wings . Now is the sun upon the highmost hill Of this day 's journey , and from nine till twelve Is three long hours , yet she is not come . Had she affections and warm youthful blood , She would be as swift in motion as a ball . My words would bandy her to my sweet love , And his to me . But old folks , many feign as they were dead , Unwieldy , slow , heavy , and pale as lead .
Go forth , Agrippa , and begin the fight . Our will is Antony be took alive . Make it so known .
Are you his brother ?
Give him the cup .
The breaking of so great a thing should make A greater crack . The round world Should have shook lions into civil streets And citizens to their dens . The death of Antony Is not a single doom . In the name lay A moiety of the world .
Which since you come too late of our intent , Yet witness what you hear we did intend . And so , my good Lord Mayor , we bid farewell .
I would outnight you , did nobody come . But , hark , I hear the footing of a man .
Caesar , my lord .
True or false , it hath made thee Earl of Gloucester . Seek out where thy father is , that he may be ready for our apprehension .
I will bite thee by the ear for that jest .
Yet read the gamut of Hortensio .
I have promised to make all this matter even . Keep you your word , O duke , to give your daughter , --You yours , Orlando , to receive his daughter . --Keep your word , Phoebe , that you 'll marry me Or else , refusing me , to wed this shepherd . --Keep your word , Silvius , that you 'll marry her If she refuse me . And from hence I go To make these doubts all even .
Rescue , my lord of Norfolk , rescue , rescue ! The king enacts more wonders than a man , Daring an opposite to every danger . His horse is slain , and all on foot he fights , Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death . Rescue , fair lord , or else the day is lost !
Will you sup there ?
Thou art the king of honor . No man so potent breathes upon the ground But I will beard him .
Because they are not eight ?
Where did you study all this goodly speech ?
And let his knights have colder looks among you . What grows of it , no matter . Advise your fellows so . I would breed from hence occasions , and I shall , That I may speak . I 'll write straight to my sister To hold my very course . Go , prepare for dinner .
O my good lord , why are you thus alone ? For what offense have I this fortnight been A banished woman from my Harry 's bed ? Tell me , sweet lord , what is ' t that takes from thee Thy stomach , pleasure , and thy golden sleep ? Why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth And start so often when thou sit 'st alone ? Why hast thou lost the fresh blood in thy cheeks And given my treasures and my rights of thee To thick - eyed musing and curst melancholy ? In thy faint slumbers I by thee have watched , And heard thee murmur tales of iron wars , Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed , Cry " Courage ! To the field ! " And thou hast talk 'd Of sallies and retires , of trenches , tents , Of palisadoes , frontiers , parapets , Of basilisks , of cannon , culverin , Of prisoners ' ransom and of soldiers slain , And all the currents of a heady fight . Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war , And thus hath so bestirred thee in thy sleep , That beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow Like bubbles in a late - disturbed stream , And in thy face strange motions have appeared , Such as we see when men restrain their breath On some great sudden hest . O , what portents are these ? Some heavy business hath my lord in hand , And I must know it , else he loves me not .
I saw her once Hop forty paces through the public street , And having lost her breath , she spoke , and panted , That she did make defect perfection , And , breathless , pour breathe forth .
No , my good lord . I am the very man --
Mean you to enjoy him then ?
The note lies in 's throat , if he say I said so .
Send us your prisoners , or you will hear of it .
Well , well , but for mine own part , as I have set up my rest to run away , so I will not rest till I have run some ground . My master 's a very Jew . Give him a present . Give him a halter . I am famished in his service . You may tell every finger I have with my ribs . Father , I am glad you are come . Give me your present to one Master Bassanio , who indeed gives rare new liveries .
I call them forth to credit her .
I partly know the man . Go , call him hither , boy
" Why " first : for flouting me ; and then " wherefore " : for urging it the second time to me .
Give me your hand first . Fare you well , my lord .
Who knows the Lord Protector 's mind herein ? Who is most inward with the noble duke ?
If this were so , so were it uttered .
Dispatch . The limit of your lives is out .
And this way have you well expounded it .
But so is not she .
What , a young knave and begging ? Is there not wars ? Is there not employment ? Doth not the King lack subjects ? Do not the rebels need soldiers ? Though it be a shame to be on any side but one , it is worse shame to beg than to be on the
Ay , sir . To be honest , as this world goes , is to be one man picked out of ten thousand .
O no , no , no , no , you dare not .
Speak , sirs , how was it ?
Come on . There is sixpence for you . Let 's have a song .
Is it so brave a lass ?
I will hear that play . For never anything can be amiss When simpleness and duty tender it . Go , bring them in . --And take your places , ladies .
But , for your conscience ?
Ourself will mingle with society And play the humble host . Our hostess keeps her state , but in best time We will require her welcome .
I can get no remedy against this consumption of the purse . Borrowing only lingers and lingers it out , but the disease is incurable . Go bear this letter to my Lord of Lancaster , this to the Prince , this to the Earl of Westmoreland ; and this to old Mistress Ursula , whom I have weekly sworn to marry since I perceived the first white hair on my chin . About it . You know where to find me .
By innocence I swear , and by my youth I have one heart , one bosom , and one truth , And that no woman has , nor never none Shall mistress be of it , save I alone . And so adieu , good madam . Nevermore Will I my master 's tears to you deplore .
Marry , that , I think , be young Petruchio .
Your wife , my lord . Your true and loyal wife .
What is she ?
Fetch him off , I pray you . He speaks nothing but madman . Fie on him !
This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen .
More light and light , more dark and dark our woes !
Young gentleman , your spirits are too bold for your years . You have seen cruel proof of this man 's strength . If you saw yourself with your eyes or knew yourself with your judgment , the fear of your adventure would counsel you to a more equal enterprise . We pray you for your own sake to embrace your own safety and give over this attempt .
Let 's do ' t , I pray , and I this morning know Where we shall find him most conveniently .
This way , my lord . The castle 's gently rendered . The tyrant 's people on both sides do fight , The noble thanes do bravely in the war , The day almost itself professes yours , And little is to do .
Where is Montjoy the herald ? Speed him hence . Let him greet England with our sharp defiance . Up , princes , and , with spirit of honor edged More sharper than your swords , hie to the field : Charles Delabreth , High Constable of France ; You dukes of Orleans , Bourbon , and of Berri , Alencon , Brabant , Bar , and Burgundy ; Jacques Chatillon , Rambures , Vaudemont , Beaumont , Grandpre , Roussi , and Faulconbridge , Foix , Lestrale , Bouciqualt , and Charolois ; High dukes , great princes , barons , lords , and knights , For your great seats now quit you of great shames . Bar Harry England , that sweeps through our land With pennons painted in the blood of Harfleur . Rush on his host , as doth the melted snow Upon the valleys , whose low vassal seat The Alps doth spit and void his rheum upon . Go down upon him -- you have power enough -- And in a captive chariot into Rouen Bring him our prisoner .
No , and swears she never will . That 's her torment .
Ill met by moonlight , proud Titania .
Lo , now , lo ! Here comes a spirit of his , and to torment me For bringing wood in slowly . I 'll fall flat . Perchance he will not mind me .
' Tis evermore the prologue to his sleep . He 'll watch the horologe a double set If drink rock not his cradle .
Done to death by slanderous tongues Was the Hero that here lies . Death , in guerdon of her wrongs , Gives her fame which never dies . So the life that died with shame Lives in death with glorious fame .
Gentlemen , forward to the bridal dinner . I see a woman may be made a fool If she had not a spirit to resist .
Where is Metellus Cimber ? Let him go And presently prefer his suit to Caesar .
Come , let 's away .
Give me that boy and I will go with thee .
Why then , depart in peace and let the child wake her with crying , for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baas will never answer a calf when he bleats .
Fie , that you 'll say so ! He plays o ' the viol - de - gamboys , and speaks three or four languages word for word without book , and hath all the good gifts of nature .
As I am an honest man , I thought you had received some bodily wound . There is more sense in that than in reputation . Reputation is an idle and most false imposition , oft got without merit and lost without deserving . You have lost no reputation at all unless you repute yourself such a loser . What , man , there are ways to recover the general again . You are but now cast in his mood , a punishment more in policy than in malice , even so as one would beat his offenseless dog to affright an imperious lion . Sue to him again and he 's yours .
My will , not all the world . And for my means , I 'll husband them so well , They shall go far with little .
I aimed so near when I supposed you loved .
Ay , marry , I 'll be gone about it straight .
Good morrow , fair ones . Pray you , if you know , Where in the purlieus of this forest stands A sheepcote fenced about with olive trees ?
Hear me , my liege : For mine own part I could be well content To entertain the lag end of my life With quiet hours . For I do protest I have not sought the day of this dislike .
These are not natural events . They strengthen From strange to stranger . -- Say , how came you hither ?
When it concerns the fool or coward . On . Things that are past are done , with me . ' Tis thus : Who tells me true , though in his tale lie death , I hear him as he flattered .
Well , for two of them , I know them to be as true - bred cowards as ever turned back ; and for the third , if he fight longer than he sees reason , I 'll forswear arms . The virtue of this jest will be the incomprehensible lies that this same fat rogue will tell us when we meet at supper : how thirty at least he fought with , what wards , what blows , what extremities he endured ; and in the reproof of this lies the jest .
Dwell I but in the suburbs Of your good pleasure ? If it be no more , Portia is Brutus ' harlot , not his wife .
Let me yet know of you whither you are bound .
Help me into some house , Benvolio , Or I shall faint . A plague o ' both your houses ! They have made worms ' meat of me . I have it , And soundly too . Your houses !
But we are spirits of another sort . I with the morning 's love have oft made sport , And like a forester the groves may tread Even till the eastern gate , all fiery red , Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams , Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams . But notwithstanding , haste . Make no delay . We may effect this business yet ere day .
Now , my lord .
Ready , so please your grace .
O Gertrude , come away ! The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch But we will ship him hence , and this vile deed We must , with all our majesty and skill , Both countenance and excuse . --Ho , Guildenstern !
Small joy have I in being England 's queen .
Faith , he is gone unto the taming school .
I told you , sir , they were red-hot with drinking , So full of valor that they smote the air For breathing in their faces , beat the ground For kissing of their feet -- yet always bending Towards their project . Then I beat my tabor , At which , like unbacked colts , they pricked their ears , Advanced their eyelids , lifted up their noses As they smelt music . So I charmed their ears That , calflike , they my lowing followed through Toothed briers , sharp furzes , pricking gorse , and thorns , Which entered their frail shins . At last I left them I ' th ' filthy - mantled pool beyond your cell , There dancing up to th ' chins , that the foul lake O ' erstunk their feet .
If he swagger , let him not come here . No , by my faith , I must live among my neighbors . I 'll no swaggerers : I am in good name and fame with the very best . Shut the door . There comes no swaggerers here . I have not lived all this while to have swaggering now . Shut the door , I pray you .
What is the matter here ?
But is this true , or is it else your pleasure , Like pleasant travelers , to break a jest Upon the company you overtake ?
I think thou dost . And for I know thou ' rt full of love and honesty And weigh 'st thy words before thou giv 'st them breath , Therefore these stops of thine fright me the more . For such things in a false disloyal knave Are tricks of custom , but in a man that 's just They are close dilations , working from the heart , That passion cannot rule .
Indeed , my lord , you made me believe so .
He 's in his fit now and does not talk after the wisest . He shall taste of my bottle . If he have never drunk wine afore , it will go near to remove his fit . If I can recover him and keep him tame , I will not take too much for him . He shall pay for him that hath him , and that soundly .
Brutus , this sober form of yours hides wrongs . And when you do them --
Am I that name , Iago ?
Hath the fellow any wit that told you this ?
" M.O.A.I. " This simulation is not as the former , and yet to crush this a little , it would bow to me , for every one of these letters are in my name . Soft , here follows prose .
I 'll serve you , sir , five hundred at the rate .
Ay , the heads of the maids , or their maidenheads . Take it in what sense thou wilt .
To th ' monument ! There lock yourself and send him word you are dead . The soul and body rive not more in parting Than greatness going off .
Welcome , dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern . Moreover that we much did long to see you , The need we have to use you did provoke Our hasty sending . Something have you heard Of Hamlet 's " transformation " -- so call it Since nor th ' exterior nor the inward man Resembles that it was . What it should be , More than his father 's death , that thus hath put him So much from th ' understanding of himself , I cannot dream of . I entreat you both That , being of so young days brought up with him And since so neighbored to his youth and ' havior , That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court Some little time so by your companies To draw him on to pleasures and to gather , So much as from occasion you may glean , Whether aught , to us unknown , afflicts him thus That , opened , lies within our remedy .
Hadst thou thy wits , and didst persuade revenge , It could not move thus .
Thou chid 'st me oft for loving Rosaline .
Sir , what are you that offer to beat my servant ?
He hath commission from thy wife and me To hang Cordelia in the prison and To lay the blame upon her own despair , That she fordid herself .
Is my lord well , that he doth speak so wide ?
Your lord does know my mind . I cannot love him . Yet I suppose him virtuous , know him noble , Of great estate , of fresh and stainless youth .
Give him this money and these notes , Reynaldo .
Away , you rogue ! Dost thou not hear them call ?
Troth , no , no more than reason .
I ' th ' name of something holy , sir , why stand you In this strange stare ?
Now she holds me not . Now follow , if thou darest , to try whose right , Of thine or mine , is most in Helena .
Caesar , thou canst not die by traitors ' hands Unless thou bring 'st them with thee .
Your man and you are marvelous merry , sir . Will you go with me ? We 'll mend our dinner here .
In praising Antony , I have dispraised Caesar .
And I do think -- or else this brain of mine Hunts not the trail of policy so sure As it hath used to do -- that I have found The very cause of Hamlet 's lunacy .
To be called into a huge sphere , and not to be seen to move in ' t , are the holes where eyes should be , which pitifully disaster the cheeks .
Do so , good Messala .
I do arrest you , sir . You hear the suit .
Welcome , Publius . --What , Brutus , are you stirred so early too ? --Good morrow , Casca . --Caius Ligarius , Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy As that same ague which hath made you lean . --What is ' t o'clock ?
I will , and know her mind early tomorrow . Tonight she is mewed up to her heaviness .
The handkerchief !
' Fore heaven , they have given me a rouse already .
A false conclusion . I hate it as an unfilled can . To be up after midnight and to go to bed then , is early , so that to go to bed after midnight is to go to bed betimes . Does not our life consist of the four elements ?
What an eye she has ! Methinks it sounds a parley to provocation .
It was a lover and his lass , With a hey , and a ho , and a hey - nonny - no , That o'er the green cornfield did pass In springtime , the only pretty ring time , When birds do sing , Hey ding a ding , ding . Sweet lovers love the spring . Between the acres of the rye ,
Why , what 's a moveable ?
Here , sir .
Ha , ha , ha . You can do it , sir , you can do it . I commend you well . --Francis Feeble !
Where England ?
' Tis true , most worthy signior . The Duke 's in council and your noble self , I am sure , is sent for .
I now repent I told the pursuivant , As too triumphing , how mine enemies Today at Pomfret bloodily were butchered , And I myself secure in grace and favor . O Margaret , Margaret , now thy heavy curse Is lighted on poor Hastings ' wretched head .
My lord , there was no such stuff in my thoughts .
It shall be so . Madness in great ones must not unwatched go .
I prithee , Harry , withdraw thyself . Thou bleedest too much . Lord John of Lancaster , go you with him .
Do , good my lord . Your citizens entreat you .
Pray , chuck , come hither .
What need the bridge much broader than the flood ? The fairest grant is the necessity . Look what will serve is fit . ' Tis once , thou lovest , And I will fit thee with the remedy . I know we shall have reveling tonight . I will assume thy part in some disguise And tell fair Hero I am Claudio , And in her bosom I 'll unclasp my heart And take her hearing prisoner with the force And strong encounter of my amorous tale . Then after to her father will I break , And the conclusion is , she shall be thine . In practice let us put it presently .
Let me shake thy hand . I never hated thee . I have seen thee fight When I have envied thy behavior .
Give me thy hand .
Oh , the heavens ! What foul play had we that we came from thence ? Or blesse was ' t we did ?
Here comes the almanac of my true date . -- What now ? How chance thou art returned so soon ?
Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of butter?- -Pitiful - hearted Titan ! -- that melted at the sweet tale of the sun 's ? If thou didst , then behold that compound .
Well , God give thee the spirit of persuasion , and him the ears of profiting , that what thou speakest may move , and what he hears may be believed , that the true prince may , for recreation sake , prove a false thief , for the poor abuses of the time want countenance . Farewell . You shall find me in Eastcheap .
Alas , the day ! What good could they pretend ?
Away , you rogue !
Come , come , Antipholus , we dine too late .
Alas , he 's mad !
Where 's thy conscience now ?
We are in God 's hand , brother , not in theirs . March to the bridge . It now draws toward night . Beyond the river we 'll encamp ourselves , And on tomorrow bid them march away .
My niece 's chambermaid .
Who have you offended , masters , that you are thus bound to your answer ? This learned constable is too cunning to be understood . What 's your offense ?
This speech of yours hath moved me , And shall perchance do good . But speak you on . You look as you had something more to say .
Thus strangers may be haled and abused . --O monstrous villain !
Excellent .
Masters , I am to discourse wonders -- but ask me not what , for if I tell you I am no true Athenian . I will tell you everything , right as it fell out .
If I be waspish , best beware my sting .
Let not that doctor e' er come near my house ! Since he hath got the jewel that I loved , And that which you did swear to keep for me , I will become as liberal as you . I 'll not deny him anything I have , No , not my body , nor my husband 's bed . Know him I shall , I am well sure of it . Lie not a night from home . Watch me like Argus . If you do not , if I be left alone , Now , by mine honor -- which is yet mine own -- I 'll have that doctor for my bedfellow .
A plague of all cowards , I say , and a vengeance too ! Marry and amen ! --Give me a cup of sack , boy . --Ere I lead this life long , I 'll sew netherstocks and mend them , and foot them too . A plague of all cowards ! --Give me a cup of sack , rogue . --Is there no virtue extant ?
Who made thee then a bloody minister When gallant - springing , brave Plantagenet , That princely novice , was struck dead by thee ?
That she repeals him for her body 's lust . And by how much she strives to do him good She shall undo her credit with the Moor . So will I turn her virtue into pitch And out of her own goodness make the net That shall enmesh them all .
Here , thou incestuous , murderous , damned Dane , Drink off this potion . Is thy union here ? Follow my mother .
How if he will not stand ?
An unauthorized kiss !
Cut my lace , Charmian , come ! But let it be . I am quickly ill , and well , So Antony loves .
Ay . Or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a lantern , and say he comes to disfigure , or to present , the person of Moonshine . Then , there is another thing : we must have a wall in the great chamber . For Pyramus and Thisbe , says the story , did talk through the chink of a wall .
I am now of all humors that have showed themselves humors since the old days of Goodman Adam to the pupil age of this present twelve o'clock at midnight .
All hail , Macbeth ! Hail to thee , thane of Glamis !
Apt , in good faith , very apt . Well , go thy way . If Sir Toby would leave drinking , thou wert as witty a piece of Eve 's flesh as any in Illyria .
I hold the world but as the world , Gratiano -- A stage where every man must play a part , And mine a sad one .
Even so . An please your Worship , Brakenbury , You may partake of anything we say . We speak no treason , man . We say the king Is wise and virtuous , and his noble queen Well struck in years , fair , and not jealous . We say that Shore 's wife hath a pretty foot , A cherry lip , a bonny eye , a passing pleasing tongue , And that the queen 's kindred are made gentlefolks . How say you , sir ? Can you deny all this ?
I would not change it . Happy is your Grace , That can translate the stubbornness of fortune Into so quiet and so sweet a style .
Highest queen of state , Great Juno , comes . I know her by her gait .
To what end did I bid thee hie thee home ?
About it , and write " happy " when thou 'st done . Mark , I say , instantly , and carry it so As I have set it down .
And may it be that you have quite forgot A husband 's office ? Shall , Antipholus , Even in the spring of love thy love - springs rot ? Shall love , in building , grow so ruinous ? If you did wed my sister for her wealth , Then for her wealth 's sake use her with more kindness . Or if you like elsewhere , do it by stealth -- Muffle your false love with some show of blindness . Let not my sister read it in your eye ; Be not thy tongue thy own shame 's orator ; Look sweet , be fair , become disloyalty ; Apparel vice like virtue 's harbinger . Bear a fair presence , though your heart be tainted . Teach sin the carriage of a holy saint . Be secret - false . What need she be acquainted ? What simple thief brags of his own attaint ? ' Tis double wrong to truant with your bed And let her read it in thy looks at board . Shame hath a bastard fame , well managed ; Ill deeds is doubled with an evil word . Alas , poor women , make us but believe , Being compact of credit , that you love us . Though others have the arm , show us the sleeve ; We in your motion turn , and you may move us . Then , gentle brother , get you in again . Comfort my sister , cheer her , call her wife . ' Tis holy sport to be a little vain When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife .
That " banished , " that one word " banished " Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts . Tybalt 's death Was woe enough , if it had ended there . Or , if sour woe delights in fellowship And needly will be ranked with other griefs , Why followed not , when she said " Tybalt 's dead , " " Thy father " or " thy mother , " nay , or both , Which modern lamentations might have moved ? But with a rearward following Tybalt 's death , " Romeo is banished . " To speak that word , Is father , mother , Tybalt , Romeo , Juliet , All slain , all dead . " Romeo is banished . " There is no end , no limit , measure , bound , In that word 's death . No words can that woe sound . Where is my father and my mother , Nurse ?
Alas , who knows ?
Fellow , come from the throng . Look upon Caesar .
Jesu , what haste ! Can you not stay awhile ? Do you not see that I am out of breath ?
Silence awhile . --Robin , take off this head . -- Titania , music call , and strike more dead Than common sleep of all these five the sense .
Good madam , stay a while . I will be faithful . " Doubt thou the stars are fire , Doubt that the sun doth move , Doubt truth to be a liar , But never doubt I love . O dear Ophelia , I am ill at these numbers . I have not art to reckon my groans , but that I love thee best , oh , most best , believe it . Adieu . Thine evermore , most dear lady , whilst this machine is to him , Hamlet . " This in obedience hath my daughter shown me , And more above , hath his solicitings , As they fell out by time , by means , and place , All given to mine ear .
Thus have I politicly begun my reign , And ' tis my hope to end successfully . My falcon now is sharp and passing empty , And , till she stoop , she must not be full - gorged , For then she never looks upon her lure . Another way I have to man my haggard , To make her come and know her keeper 's call .
Briefly , sir .
Well , forward , forward ! Thus the bowl should run , And not unluckily against the bias . But , soft ! Company is coming here .
Else he had been damned for cozening the devil .
You have . I knew it would be your answer . Well , for your favor , sir , why , give God thanks , and make no boast of it , and for your writing and reading , let that appear when there is no need of such vanity . You are thought here to be the most senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch ; therefore bear you the lantern . This is your charge :
Who knocks so loud at door ? Look to th ' door there , Francis .
Though the seas threaten , they are merciful . I have cursed them without cause .
Ay , but not before me . The lieutenant is to be saved before the ancient . Let 's have no more of this , let 's to our affairs . --Forgive us our sins ! --Gentlemen , let 's look to our business . Do not think , gentlemen , I am drunk . This is my ancient , this is my right hand , and this is my left . I am not drunk now . I can stand well enough , and I speak well enough .
Too cruel any where . Dear Duff , I prithee , contradict thyself , And say it is not so .
But what of Cicero ? Shall we sound him ? I think he will stand very strong with us .
Why then , you are in love .
And I 'll be sworn upon ' t that he loves her , For here 's a paper written in his hand , A halting sonnet of his own pure brain , Fashioned to Beatrice .
Know , worthy Pompey , That what they do delay , they not deny .
Such as I am , I come from Antony . I was of late as petty to his ends As is the morn - dew on the myrtle leaf To his grand sea .
By my troth , this is the old fashion . You two never meet but you fall to some discord . You are both , i ' good truth , as rheumatic as two dry toasts . You cannot one bear with another 's confirmities . What the good - year ! One must bear , and that must be you . You are the weaker vessel , as they say , the emptier vessel .
Is there more toil ? Since thou dost give me pains , Let me remember thee what thou hast promised , Which is not yet performed me .
What 's he that speaks for Edmund , Earl of Gloucester ?
As whence the sun ' gins his reflection Shipwracking storms and direful thunders break , So from that spring whence comfort seemed to come Discomfort swells . Mark , King of Scotland , mark : No sooner justice had , with valor armed , Compelled these skipping kerns to trust their heels , But the Norweyan lord , surveying vantage , With furbished arms and new supplies of men , Began a fresh assault .
So .
Ah , Tranio , what a cruel father 's he ! But art thou not advised , he took some care To get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her ?
Prithee , who is ' t that thou mean'st ?
I know not at whose suit he is arrested well , But he 's in a suit of buff which ' rested him ; that can I tell . Will you send him , mistress , redemption -- the money in his desk ?
Oh , a thousand thousand times -- and then of so gentle a condition !
Hark how our steeds for present service neigh .
Old lord , I cannot blame thee , Who am myself attached with weariness To th ' dulling of my spirits . Sit down and rest . Even here I will put off my hope and keep it No longer for my flatterer . He is drowned Whom thus we stray to find , and the sea mocks Our frustrate search on land . Well , let him go .
Or else what follows ?
Carried to Colmekill , The sacred storehouse of his predecessors , And guardian of their bones .
Shall I redeliver you e' en so ?
Good Lord for alliance ! Thus goes everyone to the world but I , and I am sunburnt . I may sit in a corner and cry , " Heigh-ho for a husband ! "
My lord , this argues conscience in your Grace , But the respects thereof are nice and trivial , All circumstances well considered . You say that Edward is your brother 's son ; So say we too , but not by Edward 's wife . For first was he contract to Lady Lucy -- Your mother lives a witness to that vow -- And afterward by substitute betrothed To Bona , sister to the king of France . These both put off , a poor petitioner , A care - crazed mother to a many sons , A beauty - waning and distressed widow , Even in the afternoon of her best days , Made prize and purchase of his wanton eye , Seduced the pitch and height of his degree To base declension and loathed bigamy . By her in his unlawful bed he got This Edward , whom our manners term " the Prince . " More bitterly could I expostulate , Save that , for reverence to some alive , I give a sparing limit to my tongue . Then , good my lord , take to your royal self This proffered benefit of dignity , If not to bless us and the land withal , Yet to draw forth your noble ancestry From the corruption of abusing times Unto a lineal , true - derived course .
Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense , so forcible is thy wit . But I must tell thee plainly , Claudio undergoes my challenge , and either I must shortly hear from him , or I will subscribe him a coward . And I pray thee now tell me , for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me ?
The plainer dealer , the sooner lost . Yet he loseth it in a kind of jollity .
Where have you hid yourself ? How have you known the miseries of your father ?
Believe me , sir , had I such venture forth , The better part of my affections would Be with my hopes abroad . I should be still Plucking the grass to know where sits the wind , Peering in maps for ports and piers and roads . And every object that might make me fear Misfortune to my ventures out of doubt Would make me sad .
For both , my lord .
We 'll feast each other ere we part , and let 's Draw lots who shall begin .
I hope they will not come upon us now .
You are deceived , sir . We kept time . We lost not our time .
He hath some meaning in his mad attire . We will persuade him , be it possible , To put on better ere he go to church .
My fair Rosalind , I come within an hour of my promise .
With all my heart . --Some three or four of you Go give him courteous conduct to this place . -- Meantime the court shall hear Bellario 's letter . " Your grace shall understand that at the receipt of your letter I am very sick , but in the instant that your messenger came , in loving visitation was with me a young doctor of Rome . His name is Balthazar . I acquainted him with the cause in controversy between the Jew and Antonio the merchant . We turned o'er many books together . He is furnished with my opinion , which -- bettered with his own learning , the greatness whereof I cannot enough commend -- comes with him at my importunity to fill up your grace 's request in my stead.I beseech you , let his lack of years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend estimation , for I never knew so young a body with so old a head . I leave him to your gracious acceptance , whose trial shall better publish his commendation . "
And the boy that I gave Falstaff . He had him from me Christian , and look if the fat villain have not transformed him ape .
I will watch tonight . Perchance ' Twill walk again .
Patience herself would startle at this letter And play the swaggerer . Bear this , bear all . She says I am not fair , that I lack manners . She calls me proud , and that she could not love me Were man as rare as phoenix . ' Od 's my will , Her love is not the hare that I do hunt . Why writes she so to me ? Well , shepherd , well , This is a letter of your own device .
Monsieur the challenger , the Princess calls for you .
Stand you both forth now : stroke your chins and swear by your beards that I am a knave .
' Tis more than time . --And , my most noble lord , I hear for certain , and do speak the truth : The gentle Archbishop of York is up With well-appointed powers . He is a man Who with a double surety binds his followers . My lord your son had only but the corpse , But shadows and the shows of men , to fight ; For that same word " rebellion " did divide The action of their bodies from their souls , And they did fight with queasiness , constrained , As men drink potions , that their weapons only Seemed on our side . But , for their spirits and souls , This word " rebellion , " it had froze them up As fish are in a pond . But now the Bishop Turns insurrection to religion . Supposed sincere and holy in his thoughts , He 's followed both with body and with mind , And doth enlarge his rising with the blood Of fair King Richard , scraped from Pomfret stones ; Derives from heaven his quarrel and his cause ; Tells them he doth bestride a bleeding land , Gasping for life under great Bolingbroke ; And more and less do flock to follow him .
Not till he hears how Antony is touched With what is spoke already .
Wilt thou be lord of the whole world ? That 's twice .
We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards . This wide - chopped rascal -- would thou mightst lie drowning the washing of ten tides !
' Tis a notorious villain . Take you this weapon , Which I have recovered from the Moor . Come , guard the door without . Let him not pass , But kill him rather . I 'll after that same villain , For ' tis a damned slave .
Letters , my lord , from Hamlet . This to your majesty , this to the queen .
Where are the vile beginners of this fray ?
What , marry , may she ?
Rightly reasoned , and in his own division ; and , by my troth , there 's one meaning well suited .
She will taste as like this as a crab does to a crab . Thou canst tell why one 's nose stands i ' th ' middle on 's face ?
What , shall I groan and tell thee ?
Do , if it will not stand .
Orlando doth commend him to you both , And to that youth he calls his Rosalind He sends this bloody napkin . Are you he ?
And we fairies , that do run By the triple Hecate 's team From the presence of the sun , Following darkness like a dream , Now are frolic . Not a mouse Shall disturb this hallowed house . I am sent with broom before To sweep the dust behind the door .
But , sir , here comes your boy . ' Twere good he were schooled .
O , no , he loves me , and he holds me dear . Go you to him from me .
Good my liege --
You 'd be king o ' th ' isle , sirrah ?
How now , old lad ?
Why , she 's a devil , a devil , the devil 's dam .
a very little credit with your Worship . The knave is mine honest friend , sir ; therefore I beseech you let him be countenanced .
Sir John Falstaff , a word with you .
Well , do it , and be brief . I will walk by . I would not kill thy unprepared spirit . No , heavens forfend , I would not kill thy soul !
Yes , yes , it was Bassanio -- as I think he was so called .
Bring forth men - children only , For thy undaunted mettle should compose Nothing but males . Will it not be received , When we have marked with blood those sleepy two Of his own chamber and used their very daggers , That they have done ' t ?
Sweet Prince , why speak not you ?
" Confess and love " Had been the very sum of my confession . O happy torment , when my torturer Doth teach me answers for deliverance ! But let me to my fortune and the caskets .
I came yonder from a great supper . The Prince your brother is royally entertained by Leonato , and I can give you intelligence of an intended marriage .
Descends
Curse not thyself , fair creature ; thou art both .
" They met me in the day of success , and I have learned by the perfectest report they have more in them than mortal knowledge . When I burned in desire to question them further , they made themselves air , into which they vanished . Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it came missives from the king , who all - hailed me ' Thane of Cawdor , ' by which title , before , these weird sisters saluted me , and referred me to the coming on of time with ' Hail , king that shalt be ! ' This have I thought good to deliver thee , my dearest partner of greatness , that thou might 'st not lose the dues of rejoicing , by being ignorant of what greatness is promised thee . Lay it to thy heart , and farewell . "
O , very well , my lord . The music ended , We 'll fit the kid - fox with a pennyworth .
Thy brother 's love , our duty , and thy faults Provoke us hither now to slaughter thee .
Leave holloaing , man . Here .
I must love you and sue to know you better .
Is your assembly so ?
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats Will not debate the question of this straw . This is th ' impostume of much wealth and peace , That inward breaks and shows no cause without Why the man dies . --I humbly thank you , sir .
Her name is Margery , indeed . I 'll be sworn , if thou be Launcelot , thou art mine own flesh and blood . Lord worshipped might he be , what a beard hast thou got ! Thou hast got more hair on thy chin than Dobbin my fill - horse has on his tail .
Roderigo !
And when I lived , I was your other wife , And when you loved , you were my other husband .
How all occasions do inform against me , And spur my dull revenge ! What is a man If his chief good and market of his time Be but to sleep and feed ? A beast , no more . Sure , he that made us with such large discourse , Looking before and after , gave us not That capability and godlike reason To fust in us unused . Now , whether it be Bestial oblivion , or some craven scruple
What , is the King encamped ?
Where the devil should this Romeo be ? Came he not home tonight ?
And here 's another , whose warped looks proclaim What store her heart is made on . Stop her there ! Arms , arms , sword , fire , corruption in the place ! False justicer , why hast thou let her ' scape ?
This Davy serves you for good uses . He is your servingman and your husband .
What then ?
Soft , he wakes .
I should not then ask Casca what had chanced .
A lady , sir , though it was said she much resembled me , was yet of many accounted beautiful . But though I could not with such estimable wonder overfar believe that , yet thus far I will boldly publish her : she bore a mind that envy could not but call fair . She is drowned already , sir , with salt water , though I seem to drown her remembrance again with more .
Foolish curs , that run winking into the mouth of a Russian bear and have their heads crushed like rotten apples . You may as well say , that 's a valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion .
Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile . Filths savor but themselves . What have you done ? Tigers , not daughters , what have you performed ? A father , and a gracious aged man , Whose reverence even the head - lugged bear would lick , Most barbarous , most degenerate , have you madded .
Ho , Lucillius , hark , a word with you .
Truly , she must be given , or the marriage is not lawful .
Now will I go to take some privy order To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight , And to give order that no manner of person Have any time recourse unto the princes .
Meantime God grants that we have need of you . Our brother is imprisoned by your means , Myself disgraced , and the nobility Held in contempt , while great promotions Are daily given to ennoble those That scarce some two days since were worth a noble .
O , I am ignorance itself in this !
Is our whole dissembly appeared ?
Why , right , you are in the right . And so , without more circumstance at all , I hold it fit that we shake hands and part . You , as your business and desire shall point you -- For every man has business and desire , Such as it is -- and for my own poor part , Look you , I 'll go pray .
My lord , this is a poor mad soul , and she says up and down the town that her eldest son is like you . She hath been in good case , and the truth is , poverty hath distracted her . But , for these foolish officers , I beseech you I may have redress against them .
To the tuition of God . From my house , if I had it --
Oh , they are our friends . But one cup . I 'll drink for you .
What men have you lost , Fluellen ?
By Isis , I will give thee bloody teeth If thou with Caesar paragon again My man of men .
Some eight or ten .
Sweet saint , for charity , be not so curst .
For fear , I promise you , if I look pale .
All , all . And , moreover , God saw him when he was hid in the garden .
Not to come near our person by ten mile . For competence of life I will allow you , That lack of means enforce you not to evils . And , as we hear you do reform yourselves , We will , according to your strengths and qualities , Give you advancement . Be it your charge , my lord , To see performed the tenor of my word . -- Set on .
To fight on Edward 's party for the crown ; And for his meed , poor lord , he is mewed up . I would to God my heart were flint , like Edward 's , Or Edward 's soft and pitiful , like mine . I am too childish - foolish for this world .
Then is Caesar and he forever knit together .
It will be short . The interim 's mine . And a man 's life 's no more than to say " one . " But I am very sorry , good Horatio , That to Laertes I forgot myself , For by the image of my cause I see The portraiture of his . I 'll court his favors . But sure the bravery of his grief did put me Into a towering passion .
Follow me then To plainer ground .
You need not fear , lady , the having any of these lords . They have acquainted me with their determinations , which is indeed to return to their home and to trouble you with no more suit unless you may be won by some other sort than your father 's imposition depending on the caskets .
This castle hath a pleasant seat . The air Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself Unto our gentle senses .
When my cue comes , call me , and I will answer . My next is " Most fair Pyramus . " Heigh-ho ! Peter Quince ? Flute the bellows - mender ? Snout the tinker ? Starveling ? God 's my life , stol'n hence , and left me asleep ? I have had a most rare vision . I have had a dream -- past the wit of man to say what dream it was . Man is but an ass if he go about to expound this dream . Methought I was -- there is no man can tell what . Methought I was , and methought I had -- but man is but a patched fool if he will offer to say what methought I had . The eye of man hath not heard , the ear of man hath not seen , man 's hand is not able to taste , his tongue to conceive , nor his heart to report what my dream was . I will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of this dream .
How now , my headstrong ? Where have you been gadding ?
How was this sealed ?
I remember .
downright oaths , which I never use till urged , nor never break for urging . If thou canst love a fellow of this temper , Kate , whose face is not worth sunburning , that never looks in his glass for love of anything he sees there , let thine eye be thy cook . I speak to thee plain soldier . If thou canst love me for this , take me . If not , to say to thee that I shall die is true , but for thy love , by the Lord , no . Yet I love thee too . And while thou liv'st , dear Kate , take a fellow of plain and uncoined constancy , for he perforce must do thee right because he hath not the gift to woo in other places . For these fellows of infinite tongue , that can rhyme themselves into ladies ' favors , they do always reason themselves out again . What ? A speaker is but a prater , a rhyme is but a ballad , a good leg will fall , a straight back will stoop , a black beard will turn white , a curled pate will grow bald , a fair face will wither , a full eye will wax hollow , but a good heart , Kate , is the sun and the moon , or rather the sun and not the moon , for it shines bright and never changes but keeps his course truly . If thou would have such a one , take me . And take me , take a soldier . Take a soldier , take a king . And what say 'st thou then to my love ? Speak , my fair , and fairly , I pray thee .
Who 's there ?
He said , sir , the water itself was a good healthy water , but , for the party that owed it , he might have more diseases than he knew for .
Ha !
Sweet youth , I pray you chide a year together . I had rather hear you chide than this man woo .
A solemn air and the best comforter To an unsettled fancy cure thy brains , Now useless , boiled within thy skull . --There stand , For you are spell - stopped . -- Holy Gonzalo , honorable man , Mine eyes , ev'n sociable to the show of thine , Fall fellowly drops . The charm dissolves apace , And as the morning steals upon the night , Melting the darkness , so their rising senses Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle Their clearer reason . -- O good Gonzalo , My true preserver and a loyal sir
We 'll call thee at the cubiculo . Go .
We have sworn , my lord , already .
' Tis certain , every man that dies ill , the ill upon his own head . The king is not to answer it .
Come hither , neighbor Seacole . God hath blessed you with a good name . To be a well - favored man is the gift of fortune , but to write and read comes by nature .
He is well paid that is well satisfied . And I , delivering you , am satisfied , And therein do account myself well paid . My mind was never yet more mercenary . I pray you , know me when we meet again . I wish you well , and so I take my leave .
For thy three thousand ducats here is six .
With what I get , I mean , and so do they .
Do you hear , Cassio ?
There were none principal . They were all like one another as half - pence are , every one fault seeming monstrous till his fellow fault came to match it .
' Twas merry when You wagered on your angling , when your diver Did hang a salt fish on his hook , which he With fervency drew up .
There my Lysander and myself shall meet . And thence from Athens turn away our eyes To seek new friends and stranger companies . Farewell , sweet playfellow . Pray thou for us . And good luck grant thee thy Demetrius ! -- Keep word , Lysander . We must starve our sight From lovers ' food till morrow deep midnight .
Prithee , if thou lovest me , tell me .
What gold is this ? What Adam dost thou mean ?
What disease hast thou ?
If Brutus will vouchsafe that Antony May safely come to him and be resolved How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death , Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead So well as Brutus living , but will follow The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus Thorough the hazards of this untrod state With all true faith . So says my master Antony .
A whoreson cold , sir , a cough , sir , which I caught with ringing in the King 's affairs upon his coronation day , sir .
Come to me , Tyrrel , soon at after - supper , When thou shalt tell the process of their death . Meantime , but think how I may do thee good , And be inheritor of thy desire . Farewell till then .
I am glad I have found this napkin , This was her first remembrance from the Moor . My wayward husband hath a hundred times
Sound , trumpet !
Now , by my maidenhead at twelve year old I bade her come . What , lamb ! What , ladybird ! God forbid ! Where 's this girl ? What , Juliet !
The heat is past . Follow no further now .
Stop there , stop there .
Talk not of standing . --Publius , good cheer . There is no harm intended to your person , Nor to no Roman else . So tell them , Publius .
Why came I hither but to that intent ? Think you a little din can daunt mine ears ? Have I not in my time heard lions roar ? Have I not heard the sea , puffed up with winds , Rage like an angry boar chafed with sweat ? Have I not heard great ordnance in the field , And heaven 's artillery thunder in the skies ?
Farewell .
My lord , I cannot .
But few of any sort , and none of name .
They clepe us drunkards and with swinish phrase Soil our addition . And indeed it takes From our achievements , though performed at height , The pith and marrow of our attribute . So oft it chances in particular men That for some vicious mole of nature in them -- As in their birth ( wherein they are not guilty , Since nature cannot choose his origin ) , By the o'ergrowth of some complexion , Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason , Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens The form of plausive manners -- that these men , Carrying , I say , the stamp of one defect , Being nature 's livery or fortune 's star , Their virtues else ( be they as pure as grace , As infinite as man may undergo ) Shall in the general censure take corruption From that particular fault . The dram of evil Doth all the noble substance of a doubt To his own scandal .
God ye good e' en , fair gentlewoman .
Let me entreat you .
Marry , he told me so himself ; and he said he cared not who knew it .
Still in this fashion , color , ornament , For him I imitate . Oh , if it prove , Tempests are kind and salt waves fresh in love !
Doth the moon shine that night we play our play ?
If beauty , wisdom , modesty , can settle The heart of Antony , Octavia is A blessed lottery to him .
I have sent after him . He says he 'll come . How shall I feast him ? What bestow of him ? For youth is bought more oft than begged or borrow 'd . I speak too loud . -- Where 's Malvolio ? He is sad and civil And suits well for a servant with my fortunes . Where is Malvolio ?
Are these things spoken , or do I but dream ?
By my troth , I would not undertake her in this company . Is that the meaning of " accost " ?
Then say at once what thou dost know in this .
The pox of such antic , lisping , affecting fantasmines , these new tuners of accents ! " By Jesu , a very good blade ! A very tall man ! A very good whore ! " Why , is not this a lamentable thing , grandsire , that we should be thus afflicted with these strange flies , these fashion - mongers , these " pardon me 's , " who stand so much on the new form , that they cannot sit at ease on the old bench ? Oh , their bones , their bones !
Had you rather Caesar were living and die all slaves , than that Caesar were dead , to live all free men ? As Caesar loved me , I weep for him . As he was fortunate , I rejoice at it . As he was valiant , I honor him . But , as he was ambitious , I slew him . There is tears for his love , joy for his fortune , honor for his valor , and death for his ambition . Who is here so base that would be a bondman ? If any , speak -- for him have I offended . Who is here so rude that would not be a Roman ? If any , speak -- for him have I offended . Who is here so vile that will not love his country ? If any , speak -- for him have I offended . I pause for a reply .
What , up and down , carved like an apple tart ? Here 's snip and nip and cut and slish and slash , Like to a censer in a barber 's shop . Why , what i ' devil 's name , tailor , call' st thou this ?
For the intent and purpose of the law Hath full relation to the penalty , Which here appeareth due upon the bond .
Was ever gentleman thus grieved as I ? But who comes here ?
I hear none , madam .
O woeful day !
Hail , many-colored messenger , that ne'er Dost disobey the wife of Jupiter ; Who with thy saffron wings upon my flowers Diffusest honey drops , refreshing showers ; And with each end of thy blue bow dost crown My bosky acres and my unshrubbed down , Rich scarf to my proud earth . Why hath thy queen Summoned me hither to this short - grassed green ?
Why , I will see thee at Philippi , then .
O pity ! Sir , where is the patience now , That thou so oft have boasted to retain ?
Commend me to thy lady .
What doth she say , my lord of Buckingham ?
What 's the business , That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley The sleepers of the house ? Speak , speak !
He hath refused it in the open court . He shall have merely justice and his bond .
It is in my scabbard . Shall I draw it ?
Your hostages I have , so have you mine , And we shall talk before we fight .
It is well .
Your bedchamber .
You know me by my habit .
So please you , it is true : our thane is coming . One of my fellows had the speed of him , Who , almost dead for breath , had scarcely more Than would make up his message .
Yea , Signior , and depart when you bid me .
Be patient , for I will not let him stir Till I have used the approvd means I have , With wholesome syrups , drugs , and holy prayers , To make of him a formal man again . It is a branch and parcel of mine oath , A charitable duty of my order . Therefore depart and leave him here with me .
What , is the old king dead ?
Nay , if you have not , to it again . We will stay your leisure .
Hark thee hither , Mistress Doll .
I do allow this wen to be as familiar with me as my dog , and he holds his place , for look you how be writes .
And even for that do I love you the more . I am your spaniel . And , Demetrius , The more you beat me , I will fawn on you . Use me but as your spaniel -- spurn me , strike me , Neglect me , lose me . Only give me leave , Unworthy as I am , to follow you . What worser place can I beg in your love -- And yet a place of high respect with me -- Than to be used as you use your dog ?
We had like to have had our two noses snapped off with two old men without teeth .
That 's all I seek . And am moreover suitor that I may Produce his body to the marketplace , And in the pulpit , as becomes a friend , Speak in the order of his funeral .
Lady , shall I lie in your lap ?
Lucentio is your name . Of whence , I pray ?
He .
You are a fool . Go to .
Madam , I go with all convenient speed .
Good majesty , Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you But when you are well pleased .
Look , if my gentle love be not raised up ! I 'll make thee an example .
Masters , masters --
This is the strangest tale that ever I heard .
I 'll humbly signify what in his name , That magical word of war , we have effected : How with his banners and his well-paid ranks The ne'er - yet - beaten horse of Parthia We have jaded out o ' th ' field .
I shall do't , my lord .
Something that hath a reference to my state : No longer Celia , but Aliena .
Nay , good my lord --
I know this , and thus I challenge it .
What are they that do play it ?
Barnardo ?
Let me dispute with thee of thy estate .
Then leave her , sir , for by the power that made me , I tell you all her wealth . For you , great King , I would not from your love make such a stray To match you where I hate . Therefore beseech you T ' avert your liking a more worthier way Than on a wretch whom Nature is ashamed Almost t ' acknowledge hers .
Your mind is tossing on the ocean , There , where your argosies with portly sail , Like signors and rich burghers on the flood -- Or , as it were , the pageants of the sea -- Do overpeer the petty traffickers That curtsy to them , do them reverence As they fly by them with their woven wings .
Good morrow , Benedick . Why , what 's the matter That you have such a February face , So full of frost , of storm and cloudiness ?
Or like a whale .
How chance Moonshine is gone before Thisbe comes back and finds her lover ?
You 're welcome hither .
You will not pay for the glasses you have burst ?
Go softly on .
Now , my friendly knave , I thank thee .
But that a joy past joy calls out on me , It were a grief so brief to part with thee . Farewell .
The people knows it , and have now received His accusations .
Grumio , my horse .
You are deceived . Your brother Gloucester hates you .
There I shall see mine own figure .
And how like you this shepherd 's life , Master Touchstone ?
Let all the number of the stars give light To thy fair way .
Take these again , for to the noble mind Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind . There , my lord .
I was sure your lordship did not give it me .
And worse I may be yet . The worst is not So long as we can say " This is the worst . "
I prithee now , lead the way without any more talking . -- Trinculo , the king and all our company else being drowned , we will inherit here . --Here , bear my bottle . --Fellow Trinculo , we 'll fill him by and by again .
Nay , but swear ' t .
But that I do not .
Sir , I commend you to your own content .
Yea , if he said my ring was copper .
How now , sirrah ! How goes the world with thee ?
Had all his hairs been lives My great revenge had stomach for them all .
Be of good cheer . You 're fall'n into a princely hand . Fear nothing . Make your full reference freely to my lord , Who is so full of grace that it flows over On all that need . Let me report to him Your sweet dependency , and you shall find A conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness Where he for grace is kneeled to .
True is it that we have seen better days And have with holy bell been knolled to church , And sat at good men 's feasts and wiped our eyes Of drops that sacred pity hath engendered . And therefore sit you down in gentleness , And take upon command what help we have That to your wanting may be ministered .
You could never do him so ill - well unless you were the very man . Here 's his dry hand up and down . You are he , you are he .
No , madam .
Will you be patient ? Will you stay awhile ? I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it . I fear I wrong the honorable men Whose daggers have stabbed Caesar . I do fear it .
Ah , my good lord , what have I seen tonight !
I will , my lord .
Oh , confound the rest ! Such love must needs be treason in my breast . In second husband let me be accursed ! None wed the second but who killed the first .
Say you so ? Come on .
When Arthur first in court --Empty the jordan . And was a worthy king --How now , Mistress Doll ?
Good morrow , General .
A witty mother ! Witless else her son .
Come , I 'll drink no proofs nor no bullets . I 'll drink no more than will do me good , for no man 's pleasure , I.
Thy father , Pompey , would ne'er have made this treaty . You and I have known , sir .
What are his words ?
You know me well , and herein spend but time To wind about my love with circumstance . And out of doubt you do me now more wrong In making question of my uttermost Than if you had made waste of all I have . Then do but say to me what I should do That in your knowledge may by me be done , And I am pressed unto it . Therefore speak .
Now will not I deliver his letter , for the behavior of the young gentleman gives him out to be of good capacity and breeding . His employment between his lord and my niece confirms no less . Therefore this letter , being so excellently ignorant , will breed no terror in the youth . He will find it comes from a clodpole . But , sir , I will deliver his challenge by word of mouth , set upon Aguecheek a notable report of valor , and drive the gentleman into a most hideous opinion of his rage , skill , fury , and impetuosity . This will so fright them both that they will kill one another by the look , like cockatrices .
Yea , an ' twere a thousand pound more than ' tis , for I hear as good exclamation on your Worship as of any man in the city , and though I be but a poor man , I am glad to hear it .
' Tis spoken well . Were we before our armies , and to fight , I should do thus .
A mote it is to trouble the mind 's eye . In the most high and palmy state of Rome , A little ere the mightiest Julius fell , The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood , Disasters in the sun , and the moist star Upon whose influence Neptune 's empire stands Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse . And even the like precurse of feared events , As harbingers preceding still the fates And prologue to the omen coming on , Have heaven and earth together demonstrated Unto our climatures and countrymen .
Tomorrow , soldier , By sea and land I 'll fight . Or I will live Or bathe my dying honor in the blood Shall make it live again . Woo't thou fight well ?
Why should I not , had I the heart to do it , Like to the Egyptian thief at point of death , Kill what I love?- -A savage jealousy That sometimes savors nobly . But hear me this : Since you to nonregardance cast my faith , And that I partly know the instrument That screws me from my true place in your favor , Live you the marble - breasted tyrant still . But this your minion , whom I know you love , And whom , by heaven I swear , I tender dearly , Him will I tear out of that cruel eye Where he sits crowned in his master 's spite . Come , boy , with me . My thoughts are ripe in mischief : I 'll sacrifice the lamb that I do love To spite a raven 's heart within a dove .
Here , madam .
What is it ye would see ? If aught of woe or wonder , cease your search .
So am I purposed . Where is my lord of Gloucester ?
I would it might prove the end of his losses .
What dost thou say , Iago ?
Master , shall I be porter at the gate ?
Here , my good lord .
His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper .
It pleased your Majesty to turn your looks Of favour from myself and all our house ; And yet I must remember you , my lord , We were the first and dearest of your friends . For you my staff of office did I break In Richard 's time , and posted day and night To meet you on the way , and kiss your hand When yet you were in place and in account Nothing so strong and fortunate as I. It was myself , my brother , and his son That brought you home and boldly did outdare The dangers of the time . You swore to us , And you did swear that oath at Doncaster , That you did nothing purpose ' gainst the state , Nor claim no further than your new - fall'n right , The seat of Gaunt , dukedom of Lancaster . To this we swore our aid . But in short space It rained down fortune show'ring on your head , And such a flood of greatness fell on you -- What with our help , what with the absent King , What with the injuries of a wanton time , The seeming sufferances that you had borne ,
Most mighty sovereign , You have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful . I never was nor never will be false .
A space whose every cubit Seems to cry out , " How shall that Claribel Measure us back to Naples ? Keep in Tunis ,
The poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree , Sing all a green willow . Her hand on her bosom , her head on her knee , Sing willow , willow , willow . The fresh streams ran by her , and murmured her moans , Sing willow , willow , willow . Her salt tears fell from her , and softened the stones Sing willow , willow , willow -- Lay by these -- Willow , willow -- Prithee , hie thee , he 'll come anon -- Sing all a green willow must be my garland . Let nobody blame him , his scorn I approve -- Nay , that 's not next --Hark ! Who is ' t that knocks ?
And so doth mine . I muse why she 's at liberty .
Come on , assay . There 's one gone to the harbor ?
Hail , king ! For so thou art . Behold where stands The usurper 's cursed head . The time is free . I see thee compassed with thy kingdom 's pearl , That speak my salutation in their minds , Whose voices I desire aloud with mine . Hail , King of Scotland !
Sirrah , what humor 's the Prince of ?
This door is open . He is gone this way .
You may see , Lepidus , and henceforth know , It is not Caesar 's natural vice to hate Our great competitor . From Alexandria This is the news : he fishes , drinks , and wastes The lamps of night in revel ; is not more manlike Than Cleopatra , nor the queen of Ptolemy More womanly than he ; hardly gave audience , or Vouchsafed to think he had partners . You shall find there A man who is th ' abstract of all faults That all men follow .
And well he might so do , For well I know he was unnatural .
Peace , peace , Mercutio , peace ! Thou talk 'st of nothing .
Called you , my lord ?
Take hence this jack and whip him .
Sir John !
Hold off your hands .
God in heaven bless her ! You are to blame , my lord , to rate her so .
Why , Belman is as good as he , my lord . He cried upon it at the merest loss , And twice today picked out the dullest scent . Trust me , I take him for the better dog .
Is not that he that lies upon the ground ?
What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture ?
I 'll have no father , if you be not he . I 'll have no husband , if you be not he , Nor ne'er wed woman , if you be not she .
Then feed and be fat , my fair Calipolis . Come , give 's some sack . Si fortune me tormente , sperato me contento . Fear we broadsides ? No , let the fiend give fire . Give me some sack , and , sweetheart , lie thou there . Come we to full points here ? And are etceteras nothing ?
Truly , young gentlemen , though there was no great matter in the ditty , yet the note was very untunable .
Do I ? Yea , in very truth , do I , an ' twere an aspen leaf . I cannot abide swaggerers .
With this there grows In my most ill - composed affection such A stanchless avarice that , were I king , I should cut off the nobles for their lands , Desire his jewels and this other 's house . And my more - having would be as a sauce To make me hunger more , that I should forge Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal , Destroying them for wealth .
Why masters , have your instruments been in Naples , that they speak i ' th ' nose thus ?
Yes , sir .
I cannot too much muse Such shapes , such gesture , and such sound , expressing , Although they want the use of tongue , a kind Of excellent dumb discourse .
Lesser than Macbeth and greater .
Forbear , and eat no more .
Yea , even I alone .
No , you shall pardon me .
Didst thou not hear somebody ?
I would fain know what you have to say .
All that served Brutus , I will entertain them . --Fellow , wilt thou bestow thy time with me ?
Help me , Lysander , help me ! Do thy best To pluck this crawling serpent from my breast . Ay me , for pity ! What a dream was here . Lysander , look how I do quake with fear . Methought a serpent eat my heart away , And you sat smiling at his cruel pray . Lysander ! --What , removed?- -Lysander , lord ! -- What , out of hearing , gone ? No sound , no word?- - Alack , where are you ? Speak , an if you hear . Speak , of all loves ! I swoon almost with fear . No ? Then I well perceive you all not nigh . Either death or you I 'll find immediately .
Hail , Caesar ! Read this schedule .
Besides , the King hath wasted all his rods On late offenders , that he now doth lack The very instruments of chastisement , So that his power , like to a fangless lion , May offer but not hold .
Good morrow , neighbor Baptista .
With who ?
Madam , I come to whet your gentle thoughts On his behalf .
Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service Did worthily perform , and I must use you In such another trick . Go bring the rabble , O ' er whom I give thee power , here to this place . Incite them to quick motion , for I must Bestow upon the eyes of this young couple Some vanity of mine art . It is my promise , And they expect it from me .
' Tis not needed yet .
They call it Agincourt .
And one Deformed is one of them . I know him ; he wears a lock .
Now , by Saint Paul , that news is bad indeed . O , he hath kept an evil diet long , And overmuch consumed his royal person . ' Tis very grievous to be thought upon . Where is he , in his bed ?
And his kinsman too .
Very well , my lord , very well . Rather , an ' t please you , it is the disease of not listening , the malady of not marking , that I am troubled withal .
Good morrow , coz .
You do mistake me , sir .
First , I ask thee what they have done ; thirdly , I ask thee what 's their offense ; sixth and lastly , why they are committed ; and , to conclude , what you lay to their charge .
Illo , ho , ho , my lord !
I am not sick if Brutus have in hand Any exploit worthy the name of honor .
Ay , sir , all this is so . But why Stands Macbeth thus amazedly ? Come , sisters , cheer we up his sprites , And show the best of our delights . I 'll charm th ' air to give a sound , While you perform your antic round . That this great king may kindly say , Our duties did his welcome pay .
O , sixpence , that I had o ' Wednesday last To pay the saddler for my mistress ' crupper ? The saddler had it , sir ; I kept it not .
My lord , Sir John Umfrevile turned me back With joyful tidings and , being better horsed , Outrode me . After him came spurring hard A gentleman , almost forspent with speed , That stopp 'd by me to breathe his bloodied horse . He asked the way to Chester , and of him I did demand what news from Shrewsbury . He told me that rebellion had bad luck And that young Harry Percy 's spur was cold . With that he gave his able horse the head And , bending forward , struck his armed heels Against the panting sides of his poor jade Up to the rowel-head , and starting so He seemed in running to devour the way , Staying no longer question .
Have by some surgeon , Shylock , on your charge , To stop his wounds lest he do bleed to death .
Widow ? Charmian , hark .
Your name , fair gentlewoman ?
Are you native of this place ?
Was not that letter from fair Jessica ?
Dost thou prate , rogue ?
I 'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject , for the liquor is not earthly .
You 're welcome , sir , and he for your good sake . But for my daughter Katherine , this I know , She is not for your turn , the more my grief .
My friend is dead , ' Tis done at your request . But let her live .
Wilt thou rob this leathern jerkin , crystal - button , not - pated , agate - ring , puke - stocking , caddis-garter , smooth - tongue , Spanish - pouch --
I say a husband .
Well , To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast Fits a dull fighter and a keen guest .
Let me embrace with old Vincentio , And wander we to see thy honest son , Who will of thy arrival be full joyous .
I 'll not fail , if I live .
What 's that to us ? The time goes by . Away !
He needs not . It is no hidden virtue in him .
You know I say nothing to him , for he understands not me , nor I him . He hath neither Latin , French , nor Italian , and you will come into the court and swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English . He is a proper man 's picture , but alas , who can converse with a dumb show ? How oddly he is suited ! I think he bought his doublet in Italy , his round hose in France , his bonnet in Germany , and his behavior everywhere .
Now , what news on the Rialto ?
Here , most gracious liege .
Cure her of that . Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased , Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow , Raze out the written troubles of the brain And with some sweet oblivious antidote Cleanse the stuffed bosom of that perilous stuff Which weighs upon the heart ?
Cup us till the world go round , Cup us till the world go round !
But it raises the greater war between him and his discretion .
Well , girl , thou weep 'st not so much for his death , As that the villain lives which slaughtered him .
Touch me not so near . I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth Than it should do offence to Michael Cassio . Yet I persuade myself to speak the truth Shall nothing wrong him . This it is , general : Montano and myself being in speech , There comes a fellow crying out for help And Cassio following him with determined sword To execute upon him . Sir , this gentleman Steps in to Cassio and entreats his pause , Myself the crying fellow did pursue , Lest by his clamor -- as it so fell out -- The town might fall in fright . He , swift of foot , Outran my purpose , and I returned then rather For that I heard the clink and fall of swords And Cassio high in oath , which till tonight I ne'er might say before . When I came back -- For this was brief -- I found them close together At blow and thrust , even as again they were When you yourself did part them . More of this matter cannot I report .
Speak no more of her . --Give me a bowl of wine . -- In this I bury all unkindness , Cassius .
Show .
Belike this show imports the argument of the play .
Alas , that love , whose view is muffled still , Should , without eyes , see pathways to his will ! Where shall we dine?- -O me ! What fray was here ? Yet tell me not , for I have heard it all . Here 's much to do with hate but more with love . Why then , O brawling love , O loving hate , O anything of nothing first created ! O heavy lightness , serious vanity , Misshapen chaos of well - seeming forms ! Feather of lead , bright smoke , cold fire , sick health , Still - waking sleep , that is not what it is ! This love feel I , that feel no love in this . Dost thou not laugh ?
Silver . There it goes , Silver !
I confess the cape .
O , my lord , When you went onward on this ended action , I looked upon her with a soldier 's eye , That liked but had a rougher task in hand Than to drive liking to the name of love . But now I am returned and that war thoughts Have left their places vacant , in their rooms Come thronging soft and delicate desires , All prompting me how fair young Hero is , Saying I liked her ere I went to wars .
I pray you , give me leave .
You or any man living may be drunk at a time , man . I tell you what you shall do . Our general 's wife is now the general . I may say so in this respect , for that he hath devoted and given up himself to the contemplation , mark , and denotement of her parts and graces . Confess yourself freely to her , importune her help to put you in your place again . She is of so free , so kind , so apt , so blessed a disposition , she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested . This broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter , and , my fortunes against any lay worth naming , this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before .
Good ev'n , gentle friend . Cover thy head , cover thy head . Nay , prithee , be covered . How old are you , friend ?
O , she that might have intercepted thee , By strangling thee in her accursed womb , From all the slaughters , wretch , that thou hast done .
I cannot hear of any that did see her . The ladies , her attendants of her chamber Saw her abed , and in the morning early They found the bed untreasured of their mistress .
No tongue . All eyes ! Be silent .
Poor prattler , how thou talk'st !
I love not to see wretchedness o'er charged And duty in his service perishing .
I mean , my lord , the opposition of your person in trial .
This is the woman , but not this the man .
Since Cleopatra died I have lived in such dishonor that the gods Detest my baseness . I , that with my sword Quartered the world , and o'er green Neptune 's back With ships made cities , condemn myself to lack The courage of a woman -- less noble mind Than she which by her death our Caesar tells " I am conqueror of myself . " Thou art sworn , Eros , That when the exigent should come which now Is come indeed , when I should see behind me Th ' inevitable prosecution of Disgrace and horror , that on my command , Thou then wouldst kill me . Do ' t . The time is come . Thou strik 'st not me , ' tis Caesar thou defeat'st . Put color in thy cheek .
My Lord of Warwick , here is , praised be God for it , a most contagious treason come to light , look you , as you shall desire in a summer 's day .
It doth so , holy sir , and there 's my master , One that you love .
First , as you know , my house within the city Is richly furnished with plate and gold , Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands ; My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry , In ivory coffers I have stuffed my crowns , In cypress chests my arras counterpoints , Costly apparel , tents , and canopies , Fine linen , Turkey cushions bossed with pearl , Valance of Venice gold in needlework , Pewter and brass , and all things that belong To house or housekeeping . Then , at my farm I have a hundred milch - kine to the pail , Six score fat oxen standing in my stalls , And all things answerable to this portion . Myself am struck in years , I must confess , And if I die tomorrow this is hers , If whilst I live she will be only mine .
I am content you shall entreat me stay , But yet not stay , entreat me how you can .
Nay , by ' r Lady , that I think he cannot .
We must both give and take , my loving lord .
With him ! I will keep still with my philosopher .
I am a gentleman , sir , and my name is Conrade .
Cousin , there 's fall'n between him and my lord An unkind breach , but you shall make all well .
Thou hast spoke for us , madonna , as if thy eldest son should be a fool , whose skull Jove cram with brains , for -- here he comes -- one of thy kin has a most weak pia mater .
Perchance till after Theseus ' wedding day . If you will patiently dance in our round And see our moonlight revels , go with us . If not , shun me , and I will spare your haunts .
Yea , and text underneath : " Here dwells Benedick the married man " ?
He may command me as my sovereign , But you have power in me as in a kinsman .
Why , no . The day had broke Before we parted . I have made bold , Iago , To send in to your wife . My suit to her Is that she will to virtuous Desdemona Procure me some access .
I heard nothing .
Or as ' twere perfumed by a fen .
Away , slight man !
Come , you look paler and paler . Pray you , draw homewards . --Good sir , go with us .
The jewels of our father , with washed eyes Cordelia leaves you . I know you what you are , And like a sister am most loath to call Your faults as they are named . Love well our father . To your professed bosoms I commit him . But yet , alas , stood I within his grace , I would prefer him to a better place . So farewell to you both .
If you would know your wronger , look on me .
Who knows not that ?
I will not till I please . You shall hear me . My father charged you in his will to give me good education . You have trained me like a peasant , obscuring and hiding from me all gentlemanlike qualities . The spirit of my father grows strong in me , and I will no longer endure it . Therefore allow me such exercises as may become a gentleman , or give me the poor allottery my father left me by testament . With that I will go buy my fortunes .
Sir Paris , I will make a desperate tender Of my child 's love . I think she will be ruled In all respects by me . Nay , more , I doubt it not . -- Wife , go you to her ere you go to bed . Acquaint her here of my son Paris ' love , And bid her , mark you me , on Wednesday next -- But , soft ! What day is this ?
Why , to put 's head in -- not to give it away to his daughters and leave his horns without a case .
I can live no longer by thinking .
Nor in thine , lord .
About the wood go swifter than the wind , And Helena of Athens look thou find -- All fancy - sick she is and pale of cheer , With sighs of love , that costs the fresh blood dear . By some illusion see thou bring her here . I 'll charm his eyes against she do appear .
The servants of the Duke and my lieutenant ? The goodness of the night upon you , friends ! What is the news ?
You shall not write my praise .
Then I will come to my mother by and by . They fool me to the top of my bent . --I will come by and by .
Oh , I am slain ! If thou be merciful , Open the tomb . Lay me with Juliet .
Dull thing , I say so . He , that Caliban Whom now I keep in service . Thou best know 'st What torment I did find thee in . Thy groans Of ever angry bears . It was a torment Did make wolves howl and penetrate the breasts To lay upon the damned , which Sycorax Could not again undo . It was mine art , When I arrived and heard thee , that made gape The pine and let thee out .
He lives that loves thee better than he could .
Where 's Publius ?
First , there is the Neapolitan prince .
I answer to that name . What is your will ?
And friends with Caesar .
O Helena , goddess , nymph , perfect , divine ! To what , my love , shall I compare thine eyne ? Crystal is muddy . Oh , how ripe in show Thy lips , those kissing cherries , tempting grow ! That pure congealed white , high Taurus ' snow , Fanned with the eastern wind , turns to a crow When thou hold 'st up thy hand . Oh , let me kiss This princess of pure white , this seal of bliss !
The foul fiend haunts Poor Tom in the voice of a nightingale . Hoppedance cries in Tom 's belly for two white herring . Croak not , black angel . I have no food for thee .
If it be true , all vengeance comes too short Which can pursue th ' offender . How dost , my lord ?
Delivered with good respect . And how doth the Martlemas your master ?
And I , most jocund , apt , and willingly , To do you rest , a thousand deaths would die .
Let us score their backs And snatch ' em up , as we take hares , behind ! ' Tis sport to maul a runner .
But if the cause be not good , the king himself hath a heavy reckoning to make , when all those legs and arms and heads , chopped off in a battle , shall join together at the latter day , and cry all , " We died at such a place , " some swearing , some crying for a surgeon , some upon their wives left poor behind them , some upon the debts they owe , some upon their children rawly left . I am afeard there are few die well that die in a battle , for how can they charitably dispose of anything , when blood is their argument ? Now , if these men do not die well , it will be a black matter for the king that led them to it , who to disobey were against all proportion of subjection .
No , Pompey , I have kept me from the cup . Thou art , if thou dar 'st be , the earthly Jove . Whate'er the ocean pales or sky inclips Is thine , if thou wilt ha ' t .
What say you then to Falconbridge , the young baron of England ?
With Poins and other his continual followers .
Yes , it doth shine that night .
Welcome , my lord . I marvel our mild husband Not met us on the way .
Will I live ? Go with her , with her . Hook on , hook on .
companions . " There comes none here . You would bless you to hear what he said . No , I 'll no swaggerers .
No ? Say 'st me so , friend ? What countryman ?
I have no hope That he 's undrowned .
Ha ! Makest thou this shame thy pastime ?
Look when I serve him so , he takes it ill .
An ' t please your Worship , there 's one Pistol come from the court with news .
I dare not , sir . My master knows not but I am gone hence , And fearfully did menace me with death If I did stay to look on his intents .
Fled to his house amazed . Men , wives , and children stare , cry out , and run As it were doomsday .
All this is so , but what of this , my lord ?
Royal Egypt , Empress !
Would I were able to load him with his desert ! Will it never be day ? I will trot tomorrow a mile , and my way shall be paved with English faces .
Oh , are you come , Iago ? You have done well , That men must lay their murders on your neck .
Come hither , knight . Come hither , Fabian . We 'll whisper o'er a couplet or two of most sage saws .
I grant you , friends , if you should fright the ladies out of their wits , they would have no more discretion but to hang us . But I will aggravate my voice so that I will roar you as gently as any sucking dove . I will roar you an ' twere any nightingale .
' Tis pity of him .
I will in Cassio 's lodging lose this napkin And let him find it . Trifles light as air Are to the jealous confirmations strong As proofs of holy writ . This may do something . The Moor already changes with my poison . Dangerous conceits are in their natures poisons Which at the first are scarce found to distaste , But with a little act upon the blood Burn like the mines of sulfur .
Most fair return of greetings and desires . Upon our first , he sent out to suppress His nephew 's levies , which to him appeared To be a preparation ' gainst the Polack , But , better looked into , he truly found It was against your highness . Whereat grieved -- That so his sickness , age , and impotence Was falsely borne in hand -- sends out arrests On Fortinbras , which he , in brief , obeys , Receives rebuke from Norway , and in fine Makes vow before his uncle never more To give th ' assay of arms against your majesty . Whereon old Norway , overcome with joy ,
Do you wish then that the gods had made me poetical ?
And they are often tarred over with the surgery of our sheep ; and would you have us kiss tar ? The courtier 's hands are perfumed with civet .
But I have sent for him to answer this . And for this cause awhile we must neglect Our holy purpose to Jerusalem . Cousin , on Wednesday next our council we Will hold at Windsor . So inform the lords . But come yourself with speed to us again , For more is to be said and to be done Than out of anger can be uttered .
Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness , And fear 'st to die ? Famine is in thy cheeks . Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes . Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back . The world is not thy friend nor the world 's law . The world affords no law to make thee rich . Then be not poor , but break it , and take this .
Now begin , For look where Beatrice like a lapwing runs Close by the ground , to hear our conference .
I must prevent thee , Cimber . These couchings and these lowly courtesies Might fire the blood of ordinary men And turn preordinance and first decree Into the law of children . Be not fond , To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood That will be thawed from the true quality With that which melteth fools --I mean , sweet words , Low - crooked curtsies , and base spaniel fawning . Thy brother by decree is banished . If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him , I spurn thee like a cur out of my way . Know , Caesar doth not wrong , nor without cause Will he be satisfied .
To a rope 's end , sir , and to that end am I returned .
Yes , faith , and let it be an excellent good thing .
What please yourself , sir . I have made it for you .
Excellent wench , say I.
Thou art armed , Gloucester . Let the trumpet sound . If none appear to prove upon thy person Thy heinous , manifest , and many treasons , There is my pledge . I 'll make it on thy heart , Ere I taste bread , thou art in nothing less Than I have here proclaimed thee .
' Tis very true . Thou didst it excellent . Well , you are come to me in happy time , The rather for I have some sport in hand Wherein your cunning can assist me much . There is a lord will hear you play tonight ; But I am doubtful of your modesties , Lest over - eyeing of his odd behavior -- For yet his Honor never heard a play -- You break into some merry passion And so offend him . For I tell you , sirs , If you should smile , he grows impatient .
O most gentle Jupiter , what tedious homily of love have you wearied your parishioners withal , and never cried , " Have patience , good people . "
The day is yours .
Which is the Queen of Egypt ?
Say you ? Nay , pray you , mark . He is dead and gone , lady , He is dead and gone , At his head a grass-green turf , At his heels a stone . Oh , ho !
She is the fairies ' midwife , and she comes In shape no bigger than an agate stone On the forefinger of an alderman , Drawn with a team of little atomi Over men 's noses as they lie asleep . Her wagon spokes made of long spinners ' legs , The cover of the wings of grasshoppers , Her traces of the smallest spider 's web , Her collars of the moonshine 's watery beams , Her whip of cricket 's bone , the lash of film , Her wagoner a small gray - coated gnat , Not half so big as a round little worm Pricked from the lazy finger of a maid .
Why , by making him uncapable of Othello 's place : knocking out his brains .
This is much credit to you .
Oh , for a stone - bow , to hit him in the eye !
It will have blood , they say . Blood will have blood . Stones have been known to move , and trees to speak . Augurs and understood relations have By magot pies and choughs and rooks brought forth The secret 'st man of blood . --What is the night ?
By the hour of nine .
The town is empty . On the brow o ' th ' sea Stand ranks of people , and they cry " A sail ! "
Nay , good Sir Toby .
Why , sir , cobble you .
In a false quarrel there is no true valor . I came to seek you both .
No , it is struck .
Thy mistress ' marks ? what mistress , slave , hast thou ?
Ay , sir , what of him ?
Marry , our play is The most lamentable comedy and most cruel death of Pyramus and Thisbe .
In terms of choice I am not solely led By nice direction of a maiden 's eyes . Besides , the lottery of my destiny Bars me the right of voluntary choosing . But if my father had not scanted me And hedged me by his wit to yield myself His wife who wins me by that means I told you , Yourself , renowned Prince , then stood as fair As any comer I have looked on yet For my affection .
Signor , you are very near my brother in his love . He is enamored on Hero . I pray you , dissuade him from her . She is no equal for his birth . You may do the part of an honest man in it .
Hark , the drums Demurely wake the sleepers . Let us bear him To th ' court of guard . He is of note . Our hour Is fully out .
Upon what cause ?
When good manners shall lie all in one or two men 's hands , and they unwashed too , ' tis a foul thing .
Ay , and a kind one too . Pray God , sir , your wife send you not a worse .
Yea , marry , Sir John , which I beseech you to let me have home with me .
No , sir , God forbid , but ashamed to kiss .
O Hamlet , thou hast cleft my heart in twain .
Well , madam , and in health .
Ay , ay . Oh , lay me by my mistress ' side .
How fell you out ? Say that .
There 's another . Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer ? Where be his quiddities now , his quillities , his cases , his tenures , and his tricks ? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the sconce with a dirty shovel and will not tell him of his action of battery ? Hum ! This fellow might be in 's time a great buyer of land , with his statutes , his recognizances , his fines , his double vouchers , his recoveries . Is this the fine of his fines and the recovery of his recoveries , to have his fine pate full of fine dirt ? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of his purchases , and double ones too , than the length and breadth of a pair of indentures ? The very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in this box , and must the inheritor himself have no more , ha ?
He seems indifferent , Or rather swaying more upon our part Than cherishing th ' exhibitors against us ; For I have made an offer to his Majesty -- Upon our spiritual convocation And in regard of causes now in hand , Which I have opened to his Grace at large , As touching France - -to give a greater sum Than ever at one time the clergy yet Did to his predecessors part withal .
Brass , cur ? Thou damned and luxurious mountain goat , offer 'st me brass ?
Now you talk of a sheet of paper , I remember a pretty jest your daughter told .
In sooth , I know not why I am so sad . It wearies me ; you say it wearies you . But how I caught it , found it , or came by it , What stuff ' tis made of , whereof it is born , I am to learn . And such a want - wit sadness makes of me , That I have much ado to know myself .
You take pleasure then in the message ?
And thought they Margaret was Hero ?
Well mayst thou woo , and happy be thy speed . But be thou armed for some unhappy words .
Whenever Buckingham doth turn his hate Upon your Grace , but with all duteous love Doth cherish you and yours , God punish me When I have most need to employ a friend , With hate in those where I expect most love . And most assured that he is a friend , Deep , hollow , treacherous , and full of guile Be he unto me : this do I beg of God When I am cold in love to you or yours .
Madam , I trust , not so .
And I take him to be valiant .
My dearest coz , I pray you school yourself . But for your husband , He is noble , wise , judicious , and best knows The fits o ' th ' season . I dare not speak much further ; But cruel are the times when we are traitors And do not know ourselves ; when we hold rumor From what we fear , yet know not what we fear , But float upon a wild and violent sea Each way and none . I take my leave of you . Shall not be long but I 'll be here again . Things at the worst will cease , or else climb upward To what they were before . --My pretty cousin , Blessing upon you .
My lord , stand back and let the coffin pass .
But yesterday the word of Caesar might Have stood against the world . Now lies he there , And none so poor to do him reverence . O masters , if I were disposed to stir Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage , I should do Brutus wrong , and Cassius wrong -- Who , you all know , are honorable men . I will not do them wrong . I rather choose To wrong the dead , to wrong myself and you , Than I will wrong such honorable men . But here 's a parchment with the seal of Caesar . I found it in his closet . ' Tis his will . Let but the commons hear this testament -- Which , pardon me , I do not mean to read -- And they would go and kiss dead Caesar 's wounds And dip their napkins in his sacred blood , Yea , beg a hair of him for memory , And , dying , mention it within their wills , Bequeathing it as a rich legacy Unto their issue .
Let us do so . For we are at the stake And bayed about with many enemies . And some that smile have in their hearts , I fear , Millions of mischiefs .
Then , in mine own person I die .
I am tied to th ' stake , and I must stand the course .
He 's coming , madam . I hear him .
My Lord Chief Justice , speak to that vain man .
Is not this a rare fellow , my lord ? He 's as good at anything and yet a fool .
I ran from Shrewsbury , my noble lord , Where hateful death put on his ugliest mask To fright our party .
Who keeps the gate here , ho ?
Gentlemen , you are welcome to Elsinore . Your hands , come then . Th ' appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony . Let me comply with you in this garb -- lest my extent to the players , which , I tell you , must show fairly outwards , should more appear like entertainment than yours . You are welcome . But my uncle - father and aunt - mother are deceived .
You were best to tell Antonio what you hear -- Yet do not suddenly , for it may grieve him .
My husband !
We must not only arm t ' invade the French , But lay down our proportions to defend Against the Scot , who will make road upon us With all advantages .
Cousin , farewell . No further go in this Than I by letters shall direct your course . When time is ripe , which will be suddenly , I 'll steal to Glendower and Lord Mortimer , Where you and Douglas and our powers at once , As I will fashion it , shall happily meet To bear our fortunes in our own strong arms , Which now we hold at much uncertainty .
O , you give me ill counsel .
Who , I ?
Hope I may choose , sir .
Go bear it to the Centaur , where we host , And stay there , Dromio , till I come to thee . Within this hour it will be dinnertime . Till that , I 'll view the manners of the town , Peruse the traders , gaze upon the buildings , And then return and sleep within mine inn , For with long travel I am stiff and weary . Get thee away .
Tell thou the tale ! But hadst thou not crossed me , thou shouldst have heard how her horse fell , and she under her horse . Thou shouldst have heard in how miry a place , how she was bemoiled , how he left her with the horse upon her , how he beat me because her horse stumbled , how she waded through the dirt to pluck him off me , how he swore , how she prayed that never prayed before , how I cried , how the horses ran away , how her bridle was burst , how I lost my crupper , with many things of worthy memory which now shall die in oblivion , and thou return unexperienced to thy grave .
How dost thou , Benedick , the married man ?
How is it with you , lady ?
I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost .
Why , how now , gentleman ! Why , this is flat knavery to take upon you another man 's name .
I have fair meanings , sir .
Ay , mine own fortune in my misery .
What 's her name ?
Follow the noise so far as we have quarter ; Let 's see how it will give off .
Why , here 's no crab , and therefore look not sour .
Et vous aussi . Votre serviteur !
Let him be damned like the glutton ! Pray God his tongue be hotter ! A whoreson Achitophel , a rascally yea - forsooth knave , to bear a gentleman in hand and then stand upon security ! The whoreson smoothy-pates do now wear nothing but high shoes and bunches of keys at their girdles ; and if a man is through with them in honest taking up , then they must stand upon security . I had as lief they would put ratsbane in my mouth as offer to stop it with " security . " I looked he should have sent me two - and - twenty yards of satin , as I am a true knight , and he sends me " security . " Well , he may sleep in security , for he hath the horn of abundance , and the lightness of his wife shines through it , and yet cannot he see though he have his own lantern to light him . Where 's Bardolph ?
Nay , then --
Dead .
What , ho ! No watch ? No passage ? Murder ! Murder !
Owy , cuppele gorge , permafoy , peasant , unless thou give me crowns , brave crowns , or mangled shalt thou be by this my sword .
I will .
I cannot tell .
Good morrow , cousin .
Or as the Destinies decrees .
Were now the general of our gracious empress , As in good time he may , from Ireland coming , Bringing rebellion broached on his sword , How many would the peaceful city quit To welcome him ! Much more , and much more cause , Did they this Harry . Now in London place him ( As yet the lamentation of the French Invites the king of England 's stay at home ; The emperor 's coming in behalf of France To order peace between them ) and omit All the occurrences , whatever chanced , Till Harry 's back return again to France . There must we bring him , and myself have played The interim , by remembering you 'tis past . Then brook abridgment , and your eyes advance After your thoughts , straight back again to France .
Alas , alas !
Is Signior Lucentio within , sir ?
Make haste , make haste , sirrah .
The worser welcome . I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors . In honest plainness thou hast heard me say My daughter is not for thee . And now in madness , Being full of supper and distempering drafts , Upon malicious knavery dost thou come To start my quiet ?
Marry , will I , sir . And for that I promised you , I 'll be as good as my word . He will bear you easily and reins well .
Why , she comes to borrow nothing of them .
Nay , do not think I flatter . For what advancement may I hope from thee That no revenue hast but thy good spirits , To feed and clothe thee ? Why should the poor be flattered ? No , let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp , And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee Where thrift may follow fawning . Dost thou hear ? Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice And could of men distinguish , her election Hath sealed thee for herself , for thou hast been -- As one in suffering all that suffers nothing -- A man that Fortune 's buffets and rewards Hast ta'en with equal thanks . And blessed are those Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled , That they are not a pipe for Fortune 's finger To sound what stop she please . Give me that man That is not passion 's slave , and I will wear him In my heart 's core , ay , in my heart of heart , As I do thee . --Something too much of this . -- There is a play tonight before the king . One scene of it comes near the circumstance Which I have told thee of my father 's death . I prithee , when thou seest that act afoot , Even with the very comment of thy soul Observe mine uncle . If his occulted guilt Do not itself unkennel in one speech , It is a damned ghost that we have seen , And my imaginations are as foul
I was not born a yielder , thou proud Scot , And thou shalt find a king that will revenge Lord Stafford 's death .
Who ? One ever near thee . Call for Enobarbus He shall not hear thee , or from Caesar 's camp Say " I am none of thine . "
Well , I will be so much a sinner , to be a double - dealer . There 's another .
Well , as you guess ?
It doth , it doth , it doth .
I go . Write to me very shortly , And you shall understand from me her mind .
Marry , sir , with needle and thread .
I take this offer then : pay the bond thrice And let the Christian go .
What 's this ? What 's this ?
Your brother too must die . Consent you , Lepidus ?
I take thy groat in earnest of revenge .
I see it feelingly .
This disease is beyond my practice . Yet I have known those which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their beds .
Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair .
I do obey thee till I give thee bail . But , sirrah , you shall buy this sport as dear As all the metal in your shop will answer .
Because you talk of wooing , I will sing , Since many a wooer doth commence his suit To her he thinks not worthy , yet he woos , Yet will he swear he loves .
You know he does .
' Chill pick your teeth , zir . Come , no matter vor your foins .
Orsino , this is that Antonio That took the Phoenix and her fraught from Candy , And this is he that did the Tiger board When your young nephew Titus lost his leg . Here in the streets , desperate of shame and state , In private brabble did we apprehend him .
As strange as the thing I know not . It were as possible for me to say I loved nothing so well as you , but believe me not , and yet I lie not , I confess nothing , nor I deny nothing . I am sorry for my cousin .
O murd'rous slave ! O villain !
That quaffing and drinking will undo you : I heard my lady talk of it yesterday , and of a foolish knight that you brought in one night here to be her wooer .
Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren ground : long heath , brown furze , anything . The wills above be done , but I would fain die a dry death .
How 's that ?
They have tied me to a stake . I cannot fly , But , bearlike , I must fight the course . What 's he That was not born of woman ? Such a one Am I to fear , or none .
We 'll hear him . We 'll follow him . We 'll die with him .
I do I know not what and fear to find Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind . Fate , show thy force . Ourselves we do not owe . What is decreed must be , and be this so .
A drum , a drum ! Macbeth doth come .
What , household stuff ?
Charles , duke of Orleans , nephew to the king ; John , duke of Bourbon , and Lord Bouciqualt . Of other lords and barons , knights and squires , Full fifteen hundred , besides common men .
See , see , here comes the man we went to seek .
Good .
Take you your instrument , play you the whiles . His lecture will be done ere you have tuned .
My visor is Philemon 's roof ; within the house is Jove .
Bid my guard watch . Leave me . Ratcliffe , about the mid of night come to my tent And help to arm me . Leave me , I say .
Well , we will hear further of it by your daughter . Let it cool the while . I love Benedick well , and I could wish he would modestly examine himself to see how much he is unworthy so good a lady .
Judge me , you gods ! Wrong I mine enemies ? And if not so , how should I wrong a brother ?
For your broken shin .
Come , Antony , and young Octavius , come , Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius , For Cassius is aweary of the world -- Hated by one he loves ; braved by his brother ; Checked like a bondman , all his faults observed , Set in a notebook , learned , and conned by rote To cast into my teeth . Oh , I could weep My spirit from mine eyes . There is my dagger . And here my naked breast . Within , a heart Dearer than Plutus ' mine , richer than gold . If that thou beest a Roman , take it forth . I , that denied thee gold , will give my heart . Strike , as thou didst at Caesar . For I know When thou didst hate him worst , thou lovedst him better Than ever thou lovedst Cassius .
Thus have you heard our cause and known our means , And , my most noble friends , I pray you all Speak plainly your opinions of our hopes . And first , Lord Marshal , what say you to it ?
An he speak any thing against me , I 'll take him down , an he were lustier than he is , and twenty such Jacks . And if I cannot , I 'll find those that shall . Scurvy knave ! I am none of his flirt - gills . I am none of his skains-mates . And thou must stand by , too , and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure ?
Well , I will forget the condition of my estate to rejoice in yours .
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep , My dreams presage some joyful news at hand . My bosom 's lord sits lightly in his throne , And all this day an unaccustomed spirit Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts . I dreamt my lady came and found me dead -- Strange dream , that gives a dead man leave to think -- And breathed such life with kisses in my lips That I revived and was an emperor . Ah me ! How sweet is love itself possessed When but love 's shadows are so rich in joy !
Oh , falsely , falsely murdered !
Preposterous ass , that never read so far To know the cause why music was ordained . Was it not to refresh the mind of man After his studies or his usual pain ? Then give me leave to read philosophy And , while I pause , serve in your harmony .
No. So God help me , they spake not a word But , like dumb statues or breathing stones , Stared each on other and looked deadly pale ; Which when I saw , I reprehended them And asked the mayor what meant this willful silence . His answer was , the people were not used To be spoke to but by the recorder . Then he was urged to tell my tale again : " Thus saith the duke . Thus hath the duke inferred " -- But nothing spoke in warrant from himself . When he had done , some followers of mine own , At the lower end of the hall , hurled up their caps , And some ten voices cried " God save King Richard ! " And thus I took the vantage of those few . " Thanks , gentle citizens and friends , " quoth I. " This general applause and cheerful shout Argues your wisdoms and your love to Richard " -- And even here brake off , and came away .
Nor no man else . All' s cheerless , dark , and deadly . Your eldest daughters have fordone themselves , And desperately are dead .
Nay , come , Kate , come . You must not look so sour .
Antonio .
It well appears . But tell me Why you proceeded not against these feats , So criminal and so capital in nature , As by your safety , wisdom , all things else , You mainly were stirred up .
Why , sir , I trust I may have leave to speak , And speak I will . I am no child , no babe . Your betters have endured me say my mind , And if you cannot , best you stop your ears . My tongue will tell the anger of my heart Or else my heart , concealing it , will break , And , rather than it shall , I will be free Even to the uttermost , as I please , in words .
Oh , where is Romeo ? Saw you him today ? Right glad I am he was not at this fray .
Anon , anon , sir .
Am I not stayed for ? Tell me .
Nay , that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear it . I will only be bold with Benedick for his company , for from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot he is all mirth . He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid 's bow - string , and the little hangman dare not shoot at him . He hath a heart as sound as a bell , and his tongue is the clapper , for what his heart thinks , his tongue speaks .
My gracious liege , You won it , wore it , kept it , gave it me .
Rare Egyptian !
O Silius , Silius , I have done enough . A lower place , note well , May make too great an act . For learn this , Silius : Better to leave undone than by our deed Acquire too high a fame when him we serve 's away . Caesar and Antony have ever won More in their officer than person . Sossius , One of my place in Syria , his lieutenant , For quick accumulation of renown , Which he achieved by th ' minute , lost his favor . Who does i ' th ' wars more than his captain can Becomes his captain 's captain ; and ambition , The soldier 's virtue , rather makes choice of loss Than gain which darkens him . I could do more to do Antonius good , But ' twould offend him , and in his offense Should my performance perish .
And so was I. I 'll bear you company .
Let 's see what they be . Read them .
How chances it they travel ? Their residence , both in reputation and profit , was better both ways .
Here , madam , at your service .
Never in your life , I think , unless you see canary put me down . Methinks sometimes I have no more wit than a Christian or an ordinary man has . But I am a great eater of beef , and I believe that does harm to my wit .
' Faith sir , we were carousing till the second cock . And drink , sir , is a great provoker of three things .
And true he swore , though yet forsworn he were .
Draw together . And when I rear my hand , do you the like , To fall it on Gonzalo .
No , Sir John . It is my cousin Silence , in commission with me .
Thou liest , thou shag - haired villain !
Despiteful tidings ! O , unpleasing news !
You have simply misused our sex in your love - prate . We must have your doublet and hose plucked over your head and show the world what the bird hath done to her own nest .
Have after . To what issue will this come ?
And so did I.
Was Milan thrust from Milan , that his issue Should become kings of Naples ? O , rejoice Beyond a common joy , and set it down With gold on lasting pillars . In one voyage Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis ; And Ferdinand , her brother , found a wife Where he himself was lost ; Prospero , his dukedom In a poor isle ; and all of us , ourselves When no man was his own .
Fair Leda 's daughter had a thousand wooers ; Then well one more may fair Bianca have . And so she shall . Lucentio shall make one , Though Paris came in hope to speed alone .
How should this be ? Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow , Angering itself and others . --Bless thee , master !
What prisoners of good sort are taken , uncle ?
Fellow Grumio !
Jove bless thee , master Parson .
I cannot think , my lord , your son is dead .
I should have known no less . It hath been taught us from the primal state That he which is was wished until he were , And the ebbed man , ne'er loved till ne'er worth love , Comes deared by being lacked . This common body , Like to a vagabond flag upon the stream , Goes to and back , lackeying the varying tide To rot itself with motion .
I 'll have my bond . Speak not against my bond . I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond . Thou calledst me dog before thou hadst a cause . But since I am a dog , beware my fangs . The duke shall grant me justice . --I do wonder , Thou naughty jailer , that thou art so fond To come abroad with him at his request .
Of a certain knight that swore by his honor they were good pancakes , and swore by his honor the mustard was naught . Now , I 'll stand to it , the pancakes were naught and the mustard was good , and yet was not the knight forsworn .
Then go we in to know his embassy , Which I could with a ready guess declare Before the Frenchman speak a word of it .
To find out you . Who 's that ? Metellus Cimber ?
Is it a custom ?
That must we also . What it is , my Caius , I shall unfold to thee as we are going To whom it must be done .
Falstaff , an ' t please your Lordship .
So they do nothing , ' tis a venial slip . But if I give my wife a handkerchief --
Is the king stirring , worthy thane ?
Fare you well , boy . You know my mind . I will leave you now to your gossip - like humor . You break jests as braggarts do their blades , which , God be thanked , hurt not . --My lord , for your many courtesies I thank you . I must discontinue your company .
My lord , here stays without A messenger with letters from the doctor , New come from Padua .
Of very ill manner . He 'll speak with you , will you or no .
Lie - -
" All this " ? Ay , more . Fret till your proud heart break . Go show your slaves how choleric you are And make your bondmen tremble . Must I budge ? Must I observe you ? Must I stand and crouch Under your testy humor ? By the gods , You shall digest the venom of your spleen , Though it do split you . For from this day forth , I 'll use you for my mirth , yea , for my laughter , When you are waspish .
Well contented .
My sword , I say ! Old Montague is come , And flourishes his blade in spite of me .
Fare you well , gentle gentlemen .
You may do it extempore , for it is nothing but roaring .
The ship is here put in , A Veronesa . Michael Cassio , Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello , Is come on shore . The Moor himself at sea And is in full commission here for Cyprus .
A hundred then .
O plague right well prevented ! So will you say when you have seen the sequel .
Now , by my mother 's son , and that 's myself , It shall be moon , or star , or what I list , Or e' er I journey to your father 's house . Go on , and fetch our horses back again . -- Evermore crossed and crossed , nothing but crossed !
What men of name resort to him ?
I do , Mark Antony .
The time approaches That will with due decision make us know What we shall say we have and what we owe . Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate , But certain issue strokes must arbitrate . Towards which , advance the war .
No , my lord , not I.
His folly , Helena , is no fault of mine .
Thou hast it now : king , Cawdor , Glamis , all , As the weird women promised , and I fear Thou played 'st most foully for ' t . Yet it was said It should not stand in thy posterity , But that myself should be the root and father Of many kings . If there come truth from them -- As upon thee , Macbeth , their speeches shine -- Why , by the verities on thee made good , May they not be my oracles as well , And set me up in hope ? But hush , no more .
Ah , sirrah , quoth he , we shall Do nothing but eat and make good cheer , And praise God for the merry year , When flesh is cheap and females dear , And lusty lads roam here and there So merrily , And ever among so merrily .
O good old man , how well in thee appears The constant service of the antique world , When service sweat for duty , not for meed . Thou art not for the fashion of these times , Where none will sweat but for promotion , And having that do choke their service up Even with the having . It is not so with thee . But , poor old man , thou prun 'st a rotten tree That cannot so much as a blossom yield In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry . But come thy ways . We 'll go along together , And ere we have thy youthful wages spent , We 'll light upon some settled low content .
Who wrongs him ?
Antony , Leave thy lascivious wassails . When thou once Wast beaten from Modena , where thou slew 'st Hirtius and Pansa , consuls , at thy heel Did famine follow , whom thou fought 'st against , Though daintily brought up , with patience more Than savages could suffer . Thou didst drink The stale of horses and the gilded puddle Which beasts would cough at . Thy palate then did deign The roughest berry on the rudest hedge . Yea , like the stag , when snow the pasture sheets , The barks of trees thou browsed . On the Alps It is reported thou didst eat strange flesh , Which some did die to look on . And all this -- It wounds thine honor that I speak it now -- Was borne so like a soldier , that thy cheek So much as lanked not .
They swore that you were well-nigh dead for me .
Where is it , Jack ? Where is it ?
You will never run mad , niece .
Ay , marry , was ' t , and he put it by thrice , every time gentler than other , and at every putting - by mine honest neighbors shouted .
Into my grave .
A boon , my sovereign , for my service done .
Contemning Rome , he has done all this and more In Alexandria . Here 's the manner of ' t : I ' th ' marketplace , on a tribunal silvered , Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold Were publicly enthroned . At the feet sat Caesarion , whom they call my father 's son , And all the unlawful issue that their lust Since then hath made between them . Unto her He gave the stablishment of Egypt , made her Of lower Syria , Cyprus , Lydia , Absolute Queen .
She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed .
Hail , Caesar , and my lord ! Hail , most dear Caesar !
So young , my lord , and true .
Alas , what cry is that ?
Yea , and a case to put it into . But speak you this with a sad brow ? Or do you play the flouting jack , to tell us Cupid is a good hare - finder and Vulcan a rare carpenter ? Come , in what key shall a man take you to go in the song ?
If I do not usurp myself , I am .
Nor what I have done by water .
Few words , but to effect more than all yet : That when we have found the king -- in which your pain That way ; I 'll this -- he that first lights on him Holla the other .
There is not a white hair on your face but should have his effect of gravity .
What a plague means my niece , to take the death of her brother thus ? I am sure care 's an enemy to life .
Dear lad , believe it . For they shall yet belie thy happy years That say thou art a man . Diana 's lip Is not more smooth and rubious . Thy small pipe Is as the maiden 's organ , shrill and sound , And all is semblative a woman 's part . I know thy constellation is right apt For this affair . Some four or five attend him . All , if you will , for I myself am best When least in company . Prosper well in this , And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord , To call his fortunes thine .
To have no screen between this part he played And him he played it for , he needs will be Absolute Milan . Me , poor man , my library Was dukedom large enough . Of temporal royalties He thinks me now incapable , confederates -- So dry he was for sway -- wi ' th ' King of Naples To give him annual tribute , do him homage , Subject his coronet to his crown and bend The dukedom yet unbowed -- alas , poor Milan ! -- To most ignoble stooping .
Mark Antony shall say I am not well , And for thy humor I will stay at home .
I know a discontented gentleman Whose humble means match not his haughty spirit . Gold were as good as twenty orators , And will , no doubt , tempt him to anything .
' Tis the more time thou wert used .
What is he , Biondello ?
Yea , but you must not make the full show of this till you may do it without controlment . You have of late stood out against your brother , and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace , where it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair weather that you make yourself . It is needful that you frame the season for your own harvest .
Stir with the lark tomorrow , gentle Norfolk .
Madam wife , they say that I have dreamed And slept above some fifteen year or more .
Content you , gentlemen . I will compound this strife . ' Tis deeds must win the prize , and he of both That can assure my daughter greatest dower Shall have my Bianca 's love . Say , Signior Gremio , what can you assure her ?
Not till God make men of some other metal than earth . Would it not grieve a woman to be overmastered with a piece of valiant dust ? To make an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl ? No , uncle , I 'll none . Adam 's sons are my brethren , and truly I hold it a sin to match in my kindred .
Look , my lord , it comes !
Who heard me to deny it or forswear it ?
' Slid , I 'll after him again and beat him .
Madam , what should I do ? Run to the Capitol , and nothing else ? And so return to you , and nothing else ?
Even by the rule of that philosophy By which I did blame Cato for the death Which he did give himself ( I know not how , But I do find it cowardly and vile , For fear of what might fall , so to prevent The time of life ) , arming myself with patience To stay the providence of some high powers That govern us below .
Sir , I say to you we are none .
When I was with him I have heard him swear To Tubal and to Chus , his countrymen , That he would rather have Antonio 's flesh Than twenty times the value of the sum That he did owe him . And I know , my lord , If law , authority , and power deny not , It will go hard with poor Antonio .
Let it do something , my good lord , that may do me good , and call it what you will .
Farewell till then . I will go lose myself And wander up and down to view the city .
My lord , the man I know .
' Tis very like . He hath the falling sickness .
I am sorry to find you thus . I have been to seek you .
Nor I , my lord .
And here 's another , Writ in my cousin 's hand , stol'n from her pocket , Containing her affection unto Benedick .
Read .
Hic ibat , as I told you before , Simois , I am Lucentio , hic est , son unto Vincentio of Pisa , Sigeia tellus , disguised thus to get your love , Hic steterat , and that " Lucentio " that comes a - wooing , Priami is my man Tranio , regia , bearing my port , celsa senis , that we might beguile the old pantaloon .
I durst have denied that before you were so choleric .
Take you me for a sponge , my lord ?
I will not .
Leave you ! Wherefore ?
How shall I know thee again ?
Faith , and so we should , where now remains A sweet reversion . We may boldly spend Upon the hope of what is to come in . A comfort of retirement lives in this .
Go thrust him out at gates , and let him smell His way to Dover .
I have seen them in the church together . God send ' em good shipping ! But who is here ? Mine old master Vincentio ! Now we are undone and brought to nothing .
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting . It is a most sharp sauce .
Here 's such a coil . Come , what says Romeo ?
For what reason , I beseech you ?
I am sorry I should force you to believe That which I would to God I had not seen , But these mine eyes saw him in bloody state , Rend'ring faint quittance , wearied and outbreathed , To Harry Monmouth ; whose swift wrath beat down The never - daunted Percy to the earth , From whence with life he never more sprung up . In few , his death , whose spirit lent a fire Even to the dullest peasant in his camp , Being bruited once , took fire and heat away From the best tempered courage in his troops ; For from his metal was his party steeled , Which , once in him abated , all the rest Turned on themselves , like dull and heavy lead . And as the thing that 's heavy in itself Upon enforcement flies with greatest speed ,
No , sir . Their hats are plucked about their ears , And half their faces buried in their cloaks , That by no means I may discover them By any mark of favor .
No , that same wicked bastard of Venus that was begot of thought , conceived of spleen , and born of madness , that blind rascally boy that abuses everyone 's eyes because his own are out , let him be judge how deep I am in love . I 'll tell thee , Aliena , I cannot be out of the sight of Orlando . I 'll go find a shadow and sigh till he come .
To cut his throat i ' th ' church .
Are you a comedian ?
What thing , in honor , had my father lost , That need to be revived and breathed in me ? The King that loved him , as the state stood then , Was force perforce compelled to banish him , And then that Harry Bolingbroke and he , Being mounted and both roused in their seats , Their neighing coursers daring of the spur , Their armed staves in charge , their beavers down , Their eyes of fire sparking through sights of steel And the loud trumpet blowing them together , Then , then , when there was nothing could have stayed My father from the breast of Bolingbroke , O , when the King did throw his warder down -- His own life hung upon the staff he threw -- Then threw he down himself and all their lives That by indictment and by dint of sword Have since miscarried under Bolingbroke .
Your hand , Leonato . We will go together .
Come , draw the curtain , Nerissa .
You mock me , sir .
If I stand here , I saw him .
Good day , my lord .
You must hang it first , and draw it afterwards .
What , a coward , Sir John Paunch ?
To our house .
I have heard too much , and your words and performances are no kin together .
Ay , Caesar , but not gone .
What 's he that follows here , that would not dance ?
Ay ; prithee , sing .
Un peu , madame .
We have heard the chimes at midnight , Master Shallow .
My hands are of your color , but I shame To wear a heart so white .
Stay , I will go with you
Nay , gentlemen , prepare not to be gone . We have a trifling foolish banquet towards . -- Is it e' en so ? Why , then , I thank you all . I thank you , honest gentlemen . Good night . -- More torches here ! --Come on then , let 's to bed . Ah , sirrah , by my fay , it waxes late . I 'll to my rest .
Where lay the King last night ?
I know my remedy . I must go fetch the thirdborough .
She says enough , yet she 's a simple bawd That cannot say as much . This is a subtle whore , A closet , lock and key , of villainous secrets . And yet she 'll kneel and pray , I have seen her do ' t .
My lord , I think I saw him yesternight .
With words that in an honest suit might move . First he did praise my beauty , then my speech .
Howl , howl , howl , howl ! Oh , you are men of stones . Had I your tongues and eyes , I 'd use them so That heaven 's vault should crack . She 's gone forever . I know when one is dead and when one lives . She 's dead as earth . Lend me a looking - glass . If that her breath will mist or stain the stone , Why then , she lives .
No , sir , she shall not , though you take her part .
This is a most majestic vision , and Harmonious charmingly . May I be bold To think these spirits ?
Item , a capon , ... 2s . 2d . Item , sauce , ... 4d . Item , sack , two gallons , ... 5s . 8d . Item , anchovies and sack after supper , , , , 2s . 6d . Item , bread , ob .
It is the cry of women , my good lord .
Tush , thou art deceived . Leave me and do the thing I bid thee do . Hast thou no letters to me from the friar ?
Who did strike out the light ?
But to say I know more harm in him than in myself were to say more than I know . That he is old , the more the pity ; his white hairs do witness it . But that he is , saving your reverence , a whoremaster , that I utterly deny . If sack and sugar be a fault , God help the wicked . If to be old and merry be a sin , then many an old host that I know is damned . If to be fat be to be hated , then Pharaoh 's lean kine are to be loved . No , my good lord , banish Peto , banish Bardolph , banish Poins , but for sweet Jack Falstaff , kind Jack Falstaff , true Jack Falstaff , valiant Jack Falstaff , and therefore more valiant being , as he is old Jack Falstaff , banish not him thy Harry 's company , banish not him thy Harry 's company . Banish plump Jack , and banish all the world .
My father watches . O sir , fly this place . Intelligence is given where you are hid . You have now the good advantage of the night . Have you not spoken ' gainst the Duke of Cornwall aught ? He 's coming hither -- now , i ' th ' night , i ' th ' haste , And Regan with him . Have you nothing said Upon his party ' gainst the Duke of Albany ? Advise yourself .
In each thing give him way . Cross him in nothing .
Yea , but Mark how he bears his course , and runs me up With like advantage on the other side , Gelding the opposed continent as much As on the other side it takes from you .
I tell thee , Kate , ' twas burnt and dried away . And I expressly am forbid to touch it , For it engenders choler , planteth anger ; And better ' twere that both of us did fast , Since of ourselves , ourselves are choleric , Than feed it with such over - roasted flesh . Be patient , tomorrow ' t shall be mended , And , for this night , we 'll fast for company .
I thank your Honor .
Just as high as my heart .
Saving your merry humor , here 's the note How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat , The fineness of the gold , and chargeful fashion , Which doth amount to three - odd ducats more Than I stand debted to this gentleman . I pray you , see him presently discharged , For he is bound to sea , and stays but for it .
His company must do his minions grace , Whilst I at home starve for a merry look . Hath homely age th ' alluring beauty took From my poor cheek ? Then he hath wasted it . Are my discourses dull ? Barren my wit ? If voluble and sharp discourse be marred , Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard . Do their gay vestments his affections bait ? That 's not my fault ; he 's master of my state . What ruins are in me that can be found By him not ruined ? Then is he the ground Of my defeatures . My decayed fair A sunny look of his would soon repair . But , too unruly deer , he breaks the pale And feeds from home . Poor I am but his stale .
So could I , faith , boy , to have the next wish after , That Lucentio indeed had Baptista 's youngest daughter . But , sirrah , not for my sake , but your master 's , I advise You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies . When I am alone , why then I am Tranio ; But in all places else , your master Lucentio .
So will ye , I am sure , that you love me .
Fare thee well awhile .
Here 's a change indeed !
Scornful Lysander , true , he hath my love , And what is mine my love shall render him . And she is mine , and all my right of her I do estate unto Demetrius .
The wood of Birnam .
Give me your hand . Conduct me to mine host . We love him highly And shall continue our graces towards him . By your leave , hostess .
A sovereign shame so elbows him . His own unkindness That stripped her from his benediction turned her To foreign casualties , gave her dear rights To his dog - hearted daughters . These things sting His mind so venomously that burning shame Detains him from Cordelia .
They shall be apprehended by and by .
Swum ashore , man , like a duck . I can swim like a duck , I 'll be sworn .
My good Lysander ! I swear to thee by Cupid 's strongest bow , By his best arrow with the golden head , By the simplicity of Venus ' doves , By that which knitteth souls and prospers loves , And by that fire which burned the Carthage queen When the false Troyan under sail was seen , By all the vows that ever men have broke , In that same place thou hast appointed me , Tomorrow truly will I meet with thee .
Hark !
I am not Barbason ; you cannot conjure me . I have an humor to knock you indifferently well . If you grow foul with me , Pistol , I will scour you with my rapier , as I may , in fair terms . If you would walk off , I would prick your guts a little in good terms , as I may , and that 's the humor of it .
Sir , I would speak with you . I 'll see if I can get my husband 's ring , Which I did make him swear to keep for ever .
Peace , doting wizard , peace . I am not mad .
By no means , sir . Time travels in diverse paces with diverse persons . I 'll tell you who time ambles withal , who time trots withal , who time gallops withal , and who he stands still withal .
I will be treble - sinewed , -hearted , -breathed , And fight maliciously . For when mine hours Were nice and lucky , men did ransom lives Of me for jests ; but now I 'll set my teeth And send to darkness all that stop me . Come , Let 's have one other gaudy night . Call to me All my sad captains . Fill our bowls once more . Let 's mock the midnight bell .
If thou consider rightly of the matter , Caesar has had great wrong .
Stay , give me drink . --Hamlet , this pearl is thine . Here 's to thy health .
Thou art a fool . If Echo were as fleet , I would esteem him worth a dozen such . But sup them well and look unto them all . Tomorrow I intend to hunt again .
Do so , and after two days I will discharge thee .
Is not his brother Thomas of Clarence with him ?
O , do not do your cousin such a wrong ! She cannot be so much without true judgment , Having so swift and excellent a wit As she is prized to have , as to refuse So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick .
I 'll sell all my land .
I shall do so , But I must also feel it as a man . I cannot but remember such things were That were most precious to me . Did heaven look on , And would not take their part ? Sinful Macduff , They were all struck for thee ! Naught that I am , Not for their own demerits , but for mine , Fell slaughter on their souls . Heaven rest them now .
On him , on him ! Look you , how pale he glares ! His form and cause conjoined , preaching to stones , Would make them capable . Do not look upon me , Lest with this piteous action you convert My stern effects . Then what I have to do Will want true color -- tears perchance for blood .
What man dost thou dig it for ?
It is meat and drink to me to see a clown . By my troth , we that have good wits have much to answer for . We shall be flouting . We cannot hold .
A most manly wit , Margaret , it will not hurt a woman . And so , I pray thee , call Beatrice . I give thee the bucklers .
Oh , is ' t come to this ?
Did you send to him , sir ?
Here , Fluellen , wear thou this favor for me and stick it in thy cap . When Alencon and myself were down together , I plucked this glove from his helm . If any man challenge this , he is a friend to Alencon and an enemy to our person . If thou encounter any such , apprehend him , an thou dost me love .
Go to , say you nothing . There 's a division betwixt the dukes . And a worse matter than that : I have received a letter this night . ' Tis dangerous to be spoken . I have locked the letter in my closet . These injuries the king now bears will be revenged home . There 's part of a power already footed . We must incline to the king . I will look him and privily relieve him . Go you and maintain talk with the duke , that my charity be not of him perceived . If he ask for me , I am ill and gone to bed . Though I die for it -- as no less is threatened me -- the king my old master must be relieved . There is some strange thing toward , Edmund . Pray you , be careful .
Oh ho , are you there with me ? No eyes in your head , nor no money in your purse ? Your eyes are in a heavy case , your purse in a light . Yet you see how this world goes .
I say , it is not lost .
We will , we will .
Go thou and seek the crowner , and let him sit o ' my coz . For he 's in the third degree of drink , he 's drowned . Go look after him .
Oh , monstrous ! Oh , strange ! We are haunted . Pray , masters ! Fly , masters ! Help !
Will you go see the order of the course ?
Go , you cot - quean , go . Get you to bed , faith . You 'll be sick tomorrow For this night 's watching .
At sea , I think .
Yes , I beseech your Grace . I am not yet well breathed .
Why should that gentleman that rode by Travers Give then such instances of loss ?
Farewell , my lords . We look for you tomorrow .
Tut , you saw her fair , none else being by , Herself poised with herself in either eye . But in that crystal scales let there be weighed Your lady 's love against some other maid That I will show you shining at the feast , And she shall scant show well that now shows best .
Go shake your ears !
Much castigation , exercise devout , For here 's a young and sweating devil here , That commonly rebels . ' Tis a good hand , A frank one .
has no more brain than a stone . Look you now , he 's out of his guard already . Unless you laugh and minister occasion to him , he is gagged . I protest I take these wise men that crow so at these set kind of fools no better than the fools ' zanies .
I wonder if the lion be to speak .
Here , Peter Quince .
It is Captain Macmorris , is it not ?
Kill the poys and the luggage ! ' Tis expressly against the law of arms . ' Tis as arrant a piece of knavery , mark you now , as can be offert , in your conscience now , is it not ?
If you shall send them word you will not come , Their minds may change . Besides , it were a mock Apt to be rendered for someone to say , " Break up the senate till another time When Caesar 's wife shall meet with better dreams . " If Caesar hide himself , shall they not whisper , " Lo , Caesar is afraid " ? Pardon me , Caesar . For my dear , dear love To your proceeding bids me tell you this , And reason to my love is liable .
I know thee now . How far 'st thou , soldier ?
No , Sir John , you do not know me , Sir John . I know you , Sir John . You owe me money , Sir John , and now you pick a quarrel to beguile me of it . I bought you a dozen of shirts to your back .
Were you in doubt , sir , that you asked her ?
Fear you not him . --Sirrah Biondello , Now do your duty throughly , I advise you . Imagine ' twere the right Vincentio .
What 's this to my Lysander ? Where is he ? Ah , good Demetrius , wilt thou give him me ?
The duke of York commends him to your Majesty .
By this sword , he that makes the first thrust , I 'll kill him . By this sword , I will .
I deny your major . If you will deny the Sheriff , so ; if not , let him enter . If I become not a cart as well as another man , a plague on my bringing up . I hope I shall as soon be strangled with a halter as another .
Your virtue is my privilege . For that It is not night when I do see your face . Therefore I think I am not in the night . Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company , For you in my respect are all the world . Then how can it be said I am alone When all the world is here to look on me ?
The fringed curtains of thine eye advance And say what thou seest yond .
Will you make me believe that I am not sent for you ?
That villanous abominable misleader of youth , Falstaff , that old white-bearded Satan .
I will owe thee an answer for that . And now forward with thy tale .
Seek him , bid him come hither . Tell him I have moved my lord on his behalf , and hope all will be well .
Show me the place . I love to cope him in these sullen fits , For then he 's full of matter .
Do you not hear me speak ?
Excellent wretch ! Perdition catch my soul But I do love thee ! And when I love thee not Chaos is come again .
Oh , sweet England ! King Stephen was a worthy peer , His breeches cost him but a crown , He held them sixpence all too dear , With that he called the tailor lown . He was a wight of high renown , And thou art but of low degree , ' Tis pride that pulls the country down , Then take thine auld cloak about thee . Some wine , ho !
Nay , that you shall not . Since you have begun , Have at you for a bitter jest or two !
Anon , anon .
There 's but one down . The son is fled .
Thou art not by mine eye , Lysander , found . Mine ear , I thank it , brought me to thy sound But why unkindly didst thou leave me so ?
Descend , for you must be my torchbearer .
You shall do marvelous wisely , good Reynaldo , Before you visit him , to make inquire Of his behavior .
Never . He will not . Age cannot wither her , nor custom stale Her infinite variety . Other women cloy The appetites they feed , but she makes hungry Where most she satisfies , for vilest things Become themselves in her , that the holy priests Bless her when she is riggish .
And be a happy mother by the deed .
Even such kin as the parish heifers are to the town bull . -- Shall we steal upon them , Ned , at supper ?
Do you not remember , lady , in your father 's time a Venetian , a scholar and a soldier , that came hither in company of the Marquess of Montferrat ?
Ay , madam . In the heaviness of his sleep We put fresh garments on him .
Nay , good my lord , for mine ease , in good faith . Sir , here is newly come to court Laertes , believe me , an absolute gentleman , full of most excellent differences , of very soft society and great showing . Indeed , to speak feelingly of him , he is the card or calendar of gentry , for you shall find in him the continent of what part a gentleman would see .
I would not deny you , but , by this good day , I yield upon great persuasion , and partly to save your life , for I was told you were in a consumption .
Those that are in extremity of either are abominable fellows and betray themselves to every modern censure worse than drunkards .
She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband .
As a tired horse , a railing wife , Worse than a smoky house : I had rather live With cheese and garlic in a windmill , far , Than feed on cates and have him talk to me In any summerhouse in Christendom .
Pardon me , royal sir . Election makes not up in such conditions .
Yea , my good lord . Those prisoners in your Highness ' name demanded , Which Harry Percy here at Holmedon took , Were , as he says , not with such strength denied As is delivered to your Majesty : Either envy , therefore , or misprison Is guilty of this fault , and not my son .
Ha , ha , ha !
You , Roderigo ! Come , sir , I am for you .
Give me now leave to leave thee .
A n't please your Honor , players That offer service to your Lordship .
What say 'st thou , Jack ?
' Tis better thee without than he within . Is he dispatched ?
I must confess your offer is the best , And , let your father make her the assurance , She is your own ; else , you must pardon me . If you should die before him , where 's her dower ?
Who would not have his wife so ?
What color , madam ? How shall I answer you ?
Yea , there thou mak 'st me sad , and mak 'st me sin In envy that my Lord Northumberland Should be the father to so blest a son , A son who is the theme of Honor 's tongue , Amongst a grove the very straightest plant , Who is sweet Fortune 's minion and her pride ; Whilst I , by looking on the praise of him , See riot and dishonor stain the brow Of my young Harry . O , that it could be proved That some night - tripping fairy had exchanged In cradle - clothes our children where they lay , And called mine " Percy , " his " Plantagenet " ! Then would I have his Harry , and he mine . But let him from my thoughts . What think you , coz , Of this young Percy 's pride ? The prisoners , Which he in this adventure hath surprised To his own use he keeps , and sends me word I shall have none but Mordake , Earl of Fife .
Out , devil ! I do remember them too well : Thou killed 'st my husband Henry in the Tower , And Edward , my poor son , at Tewkesbury .
Pardonnez-moi , I cannot tell what is " like me . "
You , merchant , have you any thing to say ?
And what of him ?
Brutus , my lord .
Go in with me . My duty cannot suffer To obey in all your daughters ' hard commands . Though their injunction be to bar my doors And let this tyrannous night take hold upon you , Yet have I ventured to come seek you out And bring you where both fire and food is ready .
What , so brief ?
Oh , excellent ! I love long life better than figs .
' Twere best he did .
My servant , sir ! ' Twas never merry world Since lowly feigning was call' d compliment . You 're servant to the Count Orsino , youth .
O King Stephano ! O peer , O worthy Stephano , look what a wardrobe here is for thee !
Madam , I swear I use no art at all . That he is mad , ' tis true . Tis true , ' tis pity , And pity ' tis ' tis true -- a foolish figure , But farewell it , for I will use no art . Mad let us grant him then . And now remains
I 'm out of patience .
This lion is a very fox , for his valor .
Are we all met ?
If you have any music that may not be heard , to ' t again . But , as they say , to hear music the general does not greatly care .
Make your proof .
If I can close with him , I care not for his thrust .
Tell me , thou unknown power --
I dreamt there was an emperor Antony . Oh , such another sleep , that I might see But such another man !
Why , I can buy me twenty at any market .
Now , good my lord , lie here and rest awhile .
A guiltless death I die .
" Brutus " will start a spirit as soon as " Caesar . " Now in the names of all the gods at once , Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed That he is grown so great ? Age , thou art shamed ! Rome , thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods ! When went there by an age , since the great flood , But it was famed with more than with one man ? When could they say till now , that talked of Rome , That her wide walks encompassed but one man ? Now is it Rome indeed , and room enough , When there is in it but one only man . Oh , you and I have heard our fathers say , There was a Brutus once that would have brooked Th ' eternal devil to keep his state in Rome As easily as a king .
Thou art thy father 's daughter . There 's enough .
Were such things here as we do speak about ? Or have we eaten on the insane root That takes the reason prisoner ?
Twelve year since , Miranda , twelve year since , Thy father was the Duke of Milan and A prince of power .
O heavens themselves !
True , sir . She was the wife of Caius Marcellus .
What , in the midst of the street ?
Oh , I could play the woman with mine eyes And braggart with my tongue ! But , gentle heavens , Cut short all intermission . Front to front Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself . Within my sword 's length set him ; if he ' scape , Heaven forgive him too .
With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that hath not the gout , for the one sleeps easily because he cannot study and the other lives merrily because he feels no pain -- the one lacking the burden of lean and wasteful learning , the other knowing no burden of heavy tedious penury . These time ambles withal .
My cousin 's a fool , and thou art another . I 'll wear none but this .
Well .
For Italy and Caesar . More , Domitius : My lord desires you presently . My news I might have told hereafter .
Because I would not see thy cruel nails Pluck out his poor old eyes , nor thy fierce sister In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs . The sea , with such a storm as his bare head In hell - black night endured , would have buoyed up , And quenched the stelled fires . Yet poor old heart , he holp the heavens to rain . If wolves had at thy gate howled that stern time , Thou shouldst have said , " Good porter , turn the key , " All cruels else subscribed . But I shall see The winged vengeance overtake such children .
Speak , Agrippa .
You , gentlewoman .
What is his name ?
Here , take this purse , thou whom the heavens ' plagues Have humbled to all strokes . That I am wretched Makes thee the happier . Heavens , deal so still . Let the superfluous and lust - dieted man , That slaves your ordinance , that will not see Because he doth not feel , feel your power quickly . So distribution should undo excess , And each man have enough . Dost thou know Dover ?
Go bear him hence Sister , go you with me .
Do so , and bid my sweet prepare to chide .
And stand indebted , over and above , In love and service to you evermore .
What is his strength by land ?
Lives he , good uncle ? Thrice within this hour I saw him down , thrice up again and fighting . From helmet to the spur , all blood he was .
To see a reverend Syracusian merchant , Who put unluckily into this bay Against the laws and statutes of this town , Beheaded publicly for his offense .
Tell him my fury shall abate , and I the crowns will take .
What 's thy passion ?
Ay , an you had any eye behind you , you might see more detraction at your heels than fortunes before you .
Three thousand ducats -- ' tis a good round sum . Three months from twelve , then . Let me see . The rate --
You are , and do not know ' t . The spring , the head , the fountain of your blood Is stopped ; the very source of it is stopped .
God bless you , sir .
Truly , sir , to wear out their shoes to get myself into more work . But indeed , sir , we make holiday to see Caesar and to rejoice in his triumph .
Ha ?
' Twill out , ' twill out . --I peace ? No , I will speak as liberal as the north . Let heaven and men and devils , let them all , All , all cry shame against me , yet I 'll speak .
A messenger from Caesar .
How hast thou offended ? Where is Lucentio ?
Mark me .
I prithee , let me bring thee where crabs grow . And I with my long nails will dig thee pignuts , Show thee a jay 's nest , and instruct thee how To snare the nimble marmoset . I 'll bring thee To clustering filberts , and sometimes I 'll get thee Young scamels from the rock . Wilt thou go with me ?
I am a tainted wether of the flock , Meetest for death . The weakest kind of fruit Drops earliest to the ground , and so let me . You cannot better be employed , Bassanio , Than to live still and write mine epitaph .
My life upon her faith ! --Honest Iago , My Desdemona must I leave to thee . I prithee , let thy wife attend on her , And bring them after in the best advantage . Come , Desdemona , I have but an hour Of love , of worldly matter and direction , To spend with thee . We must obey the time .
She 's a most triumphant lady , if report be square to her .
O , fear me not .
As if time were in debt . How fondly dost thou reason !
A husband ? A devil !
' Tis true indeed , so your daughter says . " Shall I , " says she , " that have so oft encountered him with scorn , write to him that I love him ? "
Caesar , I shall .
I did say so When first I raised the tempest . Say , my spirit , How fares the king and 's followers ?
Beshrew me , the knight 's in admirable fooling .
My lord , my lord --
Why , Antony .
Oh , the people in the street cry " Romeo , " Some " Juliet , " and some " Paris , " and all run With open outcry toward our monument .
Why , very well then . You must not think then that I am drunk .
There 's for thy pains .
Shall I attend your Grace ?
What answer , sir ? When spake I such a word ?
A living drollery . Now I will believe That there are unicorns , that in Arabia There is one tree , the phoenix ' throne , one phoenix At this hour reigning there .
My lord , old Sir John with half a dozen more are at the door . Shall I let them in ?
That shows thou art unconfirmed . Thou knowest that the fashion of a doublet , or a hat , or a cloak , is nothing to a man .
Of the king 's ship , The mariners , say how thou hast disposed , And all the rest o ' th ' fleet .
Would cry to a sailor , " Go hang ! " She loved not the savor of tar nor of pitch , Yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch . Then to sea , boys , and let her go hang ! This is a scurvy tune too . But here 's my comfort .
My man - monster hath drowned his tongue in sack . For my part , the sea cannot drown me . I swam , ere I could recover the shore , five and thirty leagues off and on . By this light , thou shalt be my lieutenant , monster , or my standard .
I have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak'st . Yet if thou say Antony lives , is well , Or friends with Caesar , or not captive to him , I 'll set thee in a shower of gold and hail Rich pearls upon thee .
And so in me , and so , I think , in all . Yet since it is but green , it should be put To no apparent likelihood of breach , Which haply by much company might be urged . Therefore I say with noble Buckingham That it is meet so few should fetch the prince .
It is well said , in faith , sir , and it is well said indeed too . " Better accommodated . " It is good , yea , indeed , is it . Good phrases are surely , and ever were , very commendable .
Soft ! I will go along . And if you leave me so , you do me wrong .
Kent , sir , the banished Kent , who in disguise Followed his enemy king and did him service Improper for a slave .
Be comforted , dear madam .
See , it stalks away .
Oh well done ! I commend your pains , And every one shall share i ' th ' gains . And now about the cauldron sing , Like elves and fairies in a ring , Enchanting all that you put in .
Thou art a very ragged wart .
For gazing on your beams , fair sun , being by .
Did you beg any ? God forbid !
Stand farther . --Come , proceed .
Ay , it stands so that I may hardly tarry so long . But I would be loath to fall into my dreams again . I will therefore tarry in despite of the flesh and the blood .
For my part , I am sorry it is turned to a drinking . Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune .
Then we are rid of Litio .
Yes , I know thee to be Signior Lucentio .
I will praise any man that will praise me , though it cannot be denied what I have done by land .
I shall remember . When Caesar says , " do this , " it is performed .
Let the devil and his dam haunt you ! What did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now ? I was a fine fool to take it . I must take out the work ? A likely piece of work , that you should find it in your chamber , and not know who left it there ! This is some minx 's token , and I must take out the work ? There , give it your hobby - horse . Wheresoever you had it , I 'll take out no work on ' t .
No more but e' en a woman , and commanded By such poor passion as the maid that milks And does the meanest chares . It were for me To throw my scepter at the injurious gods , To tell them that this world did equal theirs Till they had stolen our jewel . All' s but naught . Patience is sottish , and impatience does Become a dog that 's mad . Then is it sin To rush into the secret house of death Ere death dare come to us ? How do you , women ? What , what , good cheer ! Why , how now , Charmian ? My noble girls ! Ah , women , women ! Look , Our lamp is spent , it 's out . Good sirs , take heart . We 'll bury him , and then , what 's brave , what 's noble , Let 's do ' t after the high Roman fashion And make death proud to take us . Come , away . This case of that huge spirit now is cold . Ah , women , women ! Come . We have no friend But resolution , and the briefest end .
We see yonder the beginning of the day , but I think we shall never see the end of it . --Who goes there ?
Lady , by yonder blessed moon I vow , That tips with silver all these fruit - tree tops --
Where hast been , Hal ?
Take heed , Signior Baptista , lest you be cony-catched in this business . I dare swear this is the right Vincentio .
And you are come in very happy time To bear my greeting to the senators And tell them that I will not come today . " Cannot " is false , and that I dare not , falser . I will not come today . Tell them so , Decius .
How old art thou ?
Ay , good my lord .
What have you done , my lord , with the dead body ?
Yield , or thou diest .
Base Trojan , thou shalt die .
Good Ursula , wake my cousin Beatrice and desire her to rise .
Was ' t well done ?
All' s one . Good Father , how foolish are our minds ! If I do die before thee , prithee , shroud me In one of these same sheets .
Let there be no noise made , my gentle friends , Unless some dull and favorable hand Will whisper music to my weary spirit .
And a good soldier too , lady .
Yet he would be king on ' t .
Time calls upon ' s . Of us must Pompey presently be sought , Or else he seeks out us .
Fill the cup , and let it come , I 'll pledge you a mile to th ' bottom .
Why dost thou stay ?
I once more take my leave .
God 's will , my liege , would you and I alone , Without more help , could fight this royal battle !
Now , where is he that will not stay so long Till his friend sickness hath determined me ?
My honored lord , you know right well you did , And with them , words of so sweet breath composed As made the things more rich . Their perfume lost ,
Are we all ready ? What is now amiss That Caesar and his senate must redress ?
That art incestuous . Caitiff , to pieces shake , That under covert and convenient seeming Hast practiced on man 's life . Close pent-up guilts , Rive your concealing continents and cry These dreadful summoners grace . I am a man More sinned against than sinning .
What power is in Agrippa If I would say , " Agrippa , be it so , " To make this good ?
Your grandfather of famous memory , a n't please your Majesty , and your great-uncle Edward the Plack Prince of Wales , as I have read in the chronicles , fought a most prave pattle here in France .
Not I. Pray you , what are they ?
Even now , even here , not half an hour since .
What should he be ?
' Tis well blown , lads . This morning , like the spirit of a youth That means to be of note , begins betimes . So , so . Come , give me that . This way . Well said . Fare thee well , dame .
They bleed on both sides . --How is it , my lord ?
On the ground Sleep sound . I 'll apply To your eye . Gentle lover , remedy . When thou wakest , Thou takest True delight In the sight Of thy former lady 's eye . And the country proverb known -- That every man should take his own -- In your waking shall be shown . Jack shall have Jill . Nought shall go ill . The man shall have his mare again , and all shall be well .
Are you not a strumpet ?
Art thou contented , Jew ? What dost thou say ?
Nay , she must be old . She cannot choose but be old . Certain , she 's old , and had Robin Nightwork by old Nightwork before I came to Clement 's Inn .
Followed the old man forth . He is returned .
Seek to know no more .
Turn all her mother 's pains and benefits To laughter and contempt , that she may feel -- That she may feel How sharper than a serpent 's tooth it is To have a thankless child . --Away , away !
Do you not know me , Father ?
Here , mighty Theseus .
If the matter of this paper be certain , you have mighty business in hand .
I cannot speak of this . Come now , your promise .
' Tis well thou art not fish . If thou hadst , thou hadst been poor - john .
God hold it , to your Honor 's good content !
My Lord Bassanio and my gentle lady , I wish you all the joy that you can wish , For I am sure you can wish none from me . And when your honors mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith , I do beseech you Even at that time I may be married too .
Why , headstrong liberty is lashed with woe . There 's nothing situate under heaven 's eye But hath his bound , in earth , in sea , in sky . The beasts , the fishes , and the winged fowls Are their males ' subjects and at their controls . Man , more divine , the masters of all these ,
I will answer you with gait and entrance . But we are prevented .
Good my lord , tell it .
Then comes my fit again . I had else been perfect , Whole as the marble , founded as the rock , As broad and general as the casing air . But now I am cabined , cribbed , confined , bound in To saucy doubts and fears . --But Banquo 's safe ?
Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast killed Mine innocent child ?
Touch her soft mouth , and march .
For none , neither .
Either thou wilt die by God 's just ordinance Ere from this war thou turn a conqueror , Or I with grief and extreme age shall perish And nevermore behold thy face again . Therefore take with thee my most grievous curse , Which in the day of battle tire thee more Than all the complete armor that thou wear'st . My prayers on the adverse party fight , And there the little souls of Edward 's children Whisper the spirits of thine enemies And promise them success and victory . Bloody thou art ; bloody will be thy end . Shame serves thy life and doth thy death attend .
Yet here , Laertes ? Aboard , aboard , for shame ! The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail And you are stayed for . There , my blessing with thee . And these few precepts in thy memory Look thou character . Give thy thoughts no tongue , Nor any unproportioned thought his act . Be thou familiar but by no means vulgar . Those friends thou hast , and their adoption tried , Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel , But do not dull thy palm with entertainment Of each new - hatched , unfledged comrade . Beware Of entrance to a quarrel , but being in , Bear ' t that th ' opposed may beware of thee . Give every man thy ear but few thy voice . Take each man 's censure but reserve thy judgment . Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy , But not expressed in fancy -- rich , not gaudy , For the apparel oft proclaims the man , And they in France of the best rank and station Are of a most select and generous chief in that . Neither a borrower nor a lender be , For loan oft loses both itself and friend , And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry . This above all : to thine own self be true , And it must follow , as the night the day , Thou canst not then be false to any man . Farewell . My blessing season this in thee .
What dost thou know me for ?
And yesterday the bird of night did sit Even at noon-day upon the marketplace , Hooting and shrieking . When these prodigies Do so conjointly meet , let not men say , " These are their reasons . They are natural . " For I believe they are portentous things Unto the climate that they point upon .
And I 'll still stay , to have thee still forget , Forgetting any other home but this .
Dead .
Well , go thy way . Thou shalt not from this grove Till I torment thee for this injury . -- My gentle Puck , come hither . Thou rememberest Since once I sat upon a promontory And heard a mermaid on a dolphin 's back Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath That the rude sea grew civil at her song And certain stars shot madly from their spheres To hear the seamaid 's music ?
But to Orlando : did he leave him there , Food to the sucked and hungry lioness ?
That 's a degree to love .
My lord ?
Sir , Mark Antony Will e' en but kiss Octavia , and we 'll follow .
Smilest thou ? I sent for thee upon a sad occasion .
Feeling so the loss , Cannot choose but ever weep the friend .
Let me be ta'en . Let me be put to death . I am content , so thou wilt have it so . I 'll say yon grey is not the morning 's eye . ' Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia 's brow . Nor that is not the lark , whose notes do beat The vaulty heaven so high above our heads . I have more care to stay than will to go . Come , death , and welcome ! Juliet wills it so . -- How is ' t , my soul ? Let 's talk . It is not day .
How now , Roderigo ? I pray you , after the lieutenant , go !
Nor I.
What shall I swear by ?
Where art thou , proud Demetrius ? Speak thou now .
Meantime we shall express our darker purpose . -- Give me the map there . --Know that we have divided In three our kingdom , and ' tis our fast intent To shake all cares and business from our age , Conferring them on younger strengths while we Unburdened crawl toward death . --Our son of Cornwall , And you , our no less loving son of Albany , We have this hour a constant will to publish
It does , my lord .
Away , Bardolph . --Saddle my horse . --Master Robert Shallow , choose what office thou wilt in the land , ' tis thine . Pistol , I will double - charge thee with dignities .
Farewell , father .
Sweet Hero , she is wronged , she is slandered , she is undone .
How now , Sir John ? What , are you brawling here ? Doth this become your place , your time , and business ? You should have been well on your way to York . -- Stand from him , fellow : wherefore hang 'st thou upon him ?
Demand me nothing . What you know , you know . From this time forth I never will speak word .
What , ostler , come away and be hanged . Come away .
Here he is , here he is . How is't with you , sir ? How is't with you , man ?
You do yet taste Some subtleties o ' th ' isle , that will not let you Believe things certain . Welcome , my friends all . But you , my brace of lords , were I so minded , I here could pluck his highness ' frown upon you And justify you traitors . At this time I will tell no tales .
I must wait upon my good lord here . I thank you , good Sir John .
I pray thee , loving wife and gentle daughter , Give even way unto my rough affairs . Put not you on the visage of the times And be , like them , to Percy troublesome .
I do not know from what part of the world I should be greeted , if not from Lord Hamlet .
And you say you will have her when I bring her ?
Hoo ! Noble captain , come .
My husband , then ?
It is very just . Look , here comes good Sir John . --Give me your good hand , give me your Worship 's good hand . By my troth , you like well and bear your years very well . Welcome , good Sir John .
Well , I must leave her company .
Lorenzo certain , and my love indeed -- For who love I so much ? And now who knows But you , Lorenzo , whether I am yours ?
Are these things then necessities ? Then let us meet them like necessities . And that same word even now cries out on us . They say the Bishop and Northumberland Are fifty thousand strong .
What , not to pray ?
As I return , I will fetch off these justices . I do see the bottom of Justice Shallow . Lord , Lord , how subject we old men are to this vice of lying . This same starved justice hath done nothing but prate to me of the wildness of his youth and the feats he hath done about Turnbull Street , and every third word a lie , duer paid to the hearer than the Turk 's tribute . I do remember him at Clement 's Inn , like a man made after supper of a cheese paring . When he was naked , he was , for all the world , like a forked radish with a head fantastically carved upon it with a knife . He was so forlorn that his dimensions to any thick sight were invincible . He was the very genius of famine , yet lecherous as a monkey , and the whores called him " mandrake . " He came ever in the rearward of the fashion , and sung those tunes to the overscutched huswives that he heard the carmen whistle , and swore they were his fancies or his good - nights . And now is this Vice 's dagger become a squire , and talks as familiarly of John o ' Gaunt as if he had been sworn brother to him , and I 'll be sworn he ne'er saw him but once in the
I was told that by one that knows him better than you .
Two of them did , the Prince and Claudio , but the devil my master knew she was Margaret ; and partly by his oaths , which first possessed them , partly by the dark night , which did deceive them , but chiefly by my villainy , which did confirm any slander that Don John had made , away went Claudio enraged , swore he would meet her as he was appointed next morning at the temple , and there , before the whole congregation , shame her with what he saw o'ernight and send her home again without a husband .
But did you ever tell him she was false ?
The news is true , my lord . He is descried . Caesar has taken Toryne .
What , are you mad that you do reason so ?
Why doth the Jew pause ? Take thy forfeiture .
This fortification , gentlemen , shall we see ' t ?
Cassio shall have my place . And , sir , tonight I do entreat that we may sup together . You are welcome , sir , to Cyprus . Goats and monkeys !
They do me wrong , and I will not endure it ! Who is it that complains unto the king That I , forsooth , am stern and love them not ? By holy Paul , they love his grace but lightly That fill his ears with such dissentious rumors . Because I cannot flatter and look fair , Smile in men 's faces , smooth , deceive and cog , Duck with French nods and apish courtesy , I must be held a rancorous enemy . Cannot a plain man live and think no harm , But thus his simple truth must be abused With silken , sly , insinuating jacks ?
Yet say I , he is in love .
Good night then , Casca . This disturbed sky Is not to walk in .
" Hold thy peace , thou knave , " knight ? I shall be constrained in ' t to call thee knave , knight .
Because it is a blessing that he bestows on beasts , and what he hath scanted men in hair , he hath given them in wit .
Come , woo me , woo me , for now I am in a holiday humor , and like enough to consent . What would you say to me now , an I were your very , very Rosalind ?
My young remembrance cannot parallel A fellow to it .
Good sir , I do in friendship counsel you To leave this place . Albeit you have deserved High commendation , true applause , and love , Yet such is now the duke 's condition That he misconsters all that you have done . The duke is humorous . What he is indeed More suits you to conceive than I to speak of .
He knows not what he says , and vain it is That we present us to him .
The devil damn thee black , thou cream - faced loon ! Where got 'st thou that goose look ?
I know him not , but I have heard of him : A merchant of incomparable wealth .
How now , my Lord Chief Justice , whither away ?
Do you know , sirrah , where Lieutenant Cassio lies ?
Hail to thee , noble master !
God - a - mercy , Grumio ! Then he shall have no odds .
Who hath sent thee now ?
Yes , that I did , but that was but courtesy .
What foolish master taught you these manners , Sir John ?
Hast stolen it from her ?
Wherefore is this ?
With a thief to the gallows , for though he go as softly as foot can fall , he thinks himself too soon there .
Stand all apart . --Cousin of Buckingham .
The gods forbid !
Look to the queen there , ho !
Now all the youth of England are on fire , And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies . Now thrive the armorers , and honor 's thought Reigns solely in the breast of every man . They sell the pasture now to buy the horse , Following the mirror of all Christian kings With winged heels , as English Mercurys . For now sits Expectation in the air And hides a sword , from hilts unto the point , With crowns imperial , crowns and coronets Promised to Harry and his followers . The French , advised by good intelligence Of this most dreadful preparation , Shake in their fear , and with pale policy Seek to divert the English purposes . O England , model to thy inward greatness , Like little body with a mighty heart , What might 'st thou do , that honor would thee do , Were all thy children kind and natural ! But see , thy fault France hath in thee found out , A nest of hollow bosoms , which he fills With treacherous crowns , and three corrupted men -- One , Richard , Earl of Cambridge , and the second , Henry , Lord Scroop of Masham , and the third , Sir Thomas Grey , knight , of Northumberland -- Have , for the gilt of France , Confirmed conspiracy with fearful France , And by their hands this grace of kings must die , If hell and treason hold their promises ,
Fairly spoke . Sit then and talk with her . She is thine own . -- What , Ariel ! My industrious servant , Ariel !
No " master , " sir , but a poor man 's son . His father , though I say ' t , is an honest exceeding poor man and , God be thanked , well to live .
So service shall with steeled sinews toil , And labor shall refresh itself with hope To do your Grace incessant services .
Now , by my scepter , and my soul to boot , He hath more worthy interest to the state Than thou , the shadow of succession . For of no right , nor color like to right , He doth fill fields with harness in the realm , Turns head against the lion 's armed jaws , And , being no more in debt to years than thou , Leads ancient lords and reverend bishops on To bloody battles and to bruising arms . What never - dying honor hath he got Against renowned Douglas , whose high deeds , Whose hot incursions and great name in arms , Holds from all soldiers chief majority And military title capital Through all the kingdoms that acknowledge Christ . Thrice hath this Hotspur , Mars in swathling clothes , This infant warrior , in his enterprises Discomfited great Douglas , ta'en him once , Enlarged him , and made a friend of him , To fill the mouth of deep defiance up And shake the peace and safety of our throne . And what say you to this ? Percy , Northumberland , The Archbishop 's Grace of York , Douglas , Mortimer , Capitulate against us and are up . But wherefore do I tell these news to thee ? Why , Harry , do I tell thee of my foes , Which art my nearest and dearest enemy ? Thou that art like enough , through vassal fear , Base inclination , and the start of spleen , To fight against me under Percy 's pay , To dog his heels , and curtsy at his frowns , To show how much thou art degenerate .
Before me ! Look , where she comes .
Naughty lady , These hairs which thou dost ravish from my chin Will quicken and accuse thee . I am your host . With robbers ' hands my hospitable favors You should not ruffle thus . What will you do ?
Where art thou , Death ? Come hither , come ! Come , come and take a queen Worth many babes and beggars !
She that 's a maid now and laughs at my departure , Shall not be a maid long unless things be cut shorter .
Six or seven thousand is their utmost power .
She turned to folly , and she was a whore .
If you hear a child cry in the night , you must call to the nurse and bid her still it .
So should the murdered look , and so should I , Pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty . Yet you , the murderer , look as bright , as clear , As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere .
Marry , bachelor , Her mother is the lady of the house , And a good lady , and a wise and virtuous . I nursed her daughter that you talked withal . I tell you , he that can lay hold of her Shall have the chinks .
He 's fall'n in love with your foulness . And she 'll fall in love with my anger . If it be so , as fast as she answers thee with frowning looks , I 'll sauce her with bitter words . Why look you so upon me ?
I will stand to and feed , Although my last . No matter , since I feel The best is past . Brother , my lord the duke , Stand to and do as we .
A right good markman ! And she 's fair I love .
I am not Cinna the conspirator .
Th ' exchange of thy love 's faithful vow for mine .
Why will My lord do so ?
I pray the gods she may , with all my heart !
What was th ' impediment that broke this off ?
If he , compact of jars , grow musical , We shall have shortly discord in the spheres . Go seek him . Tell him I would speak with him .
Good my lord .
What needs all that , and a pair of stocks in the town ?
When holy and devout religious men Are at their beads , ' tis much to draw them thence , So sweet is zealous contemplation .
Does it not , think thee , stand me now upon -- He that hath killed my king and whored my mother , Popped in between th ' election and my hopes , Thrown out his angle for my proper life -- is ' t not perfect conscience To quit him with this arm ? And is ' t not to be damned To let this canker of our nature come In further evil ?
What is ' t , my lord ? We will .
Sir , it was I.
Well , happiness to their sheets ! Come , lieutenant , I have a stoup of wine , and here without are a brace of Cyprus gallants that would fain have a measure to the health of black Othello .
Old men forget ; yet all shall be forgot But he 'll remember with advantages What feats he did that day . Then shall our names , Familiar in his mouth as household words , Harry the King , Bedford and Exeter , Warwick and Talbot , Salisbury and Gloucester , Be in their flowing cups freshly remembered . This story shall the good man teach his son , And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by , From this day to the ending of the world , But we in it shall be remembered -- We few , we happy few , we band of brothers ; For he today that sheds his blood with me Shall be my brother ; be he ne'er so vile , This day shall gentle his condition ; And gentlemen in England now abed Shall think themselves accursed they were not here , And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks That fought with us upon Saint Crispin 's day .
O , reform it altogether ! And let those that play your clowns speak no more than is set down for them , for there be of them that will themselves laugh to set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh too , though in the meantime some necessary question of the play be then to be considered . That 's villainous , and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it . Go , make you ready .
O Dieu vivant , shall a few sprays of us , The emptying of our fathers ' luxury , Our scions , put in wild and savage stock , Spurt up so suddenly into the clouds And overlook their grafters ?
Stand you a while aloof . Cesario , Thou know 'st no less but all . I have unclasped To thee the book even of my secret soul . Therefore , good youth , address thy gait unto her ; Be not denied access , stand at her doors , And tell them there thy fixed foot shall grow Till thou have audience .
Tarry , rash wanton . Am not I thy lord ?
So now prosperity begins to mellow And drop into the rotten mouth of death . Here in these confines slyly have I lurked To watch the waning of mine enemies . A dire induction am I witness to , And will to France , hoping the consequence Will prove as bitter , black , and tragical . Withdraw thee , wretched Margaret . Who comes here ?
That 's more to me than my wetting . Yet this is your harmless fairy , monster .
You praise yourself By laying defects of judgment to me , but You patched up your excuses .
And you too , gentle Hero ?
Hear me , good madam . Your loss is as yourself , great , and you bear it As answering to the weight . Would I might never O ' ertake pursued success , but I do feel , By the rebound of yours , a grief that smites My very heart at root .
Thou drunken slave , I sent thee for a rope And told thee to what purpose and what end .
How now , Shylock ? What news among the merchants ?
Ay , the woman 's maid of the house .
I do not find that thou deal 'st justly with me .
What is thy name ?
But good lieutenant , is your general wived ?
We have sent forth already .
It may be so . If he have robbed these men , He shall be answerable ; and so farewell .
As well as I can , madam .
He should have worn the horns on his head .
But the rarity of it is -- which is indeed almost beyond credit --
Go back again and be new beaten home ? For God 's sake , send some other messenger .
Who ever knew the heavens menace so ?
Vouchsafe to wear this ring .
First , madam , he is well .
O spite ! Too old to be engaged to young .
Why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly ?
By providence divine . Some food we had and some fresh water that A noble Neapolitan , Gonzalo , Out of his charity , who being then appointed Master of this design , did give us , with Rich garments , linens , stuffs , and necessaries , Which since have steaded much . So , of his gentleness , Knowing I loved my books , he furnished me From mine own library with volumes that I prize above my dukedom .
Well , proceed .
From Fife , great king , Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky And fan our people cold . Norway himself , with terrible numbers , Assisted by that most disloyal traitor , The thane of Cawdor , began a dismal conflict , Till that Bellona 's bridegroom , lapped in proof , Confronted him with self - comparisons , Point against point , rebellious arm ' gainst arm , Curbing his lavish spirit ; and to conclude , The victory fell on us .
And came I not at last to comfort you ?
Enough . Hold , or cut bowstrings .
We doubt it nothing .
My lord , the army of great Buckingham --
Hang him , truant ! There 's no true drop of blood in him to be truly touched with love . If he be sad , he wants money .
Ha , ha ! What things are these , my lord Antonio ? Will money buy ' em ?
Nothing but well to thee , Thomas of Clarence . How chance thou art not with the Prince thy brother ? He loves thee , and thou dost neglect him , Thomas . Thou hast a better place in his affection Than all thy brothers . Cherish it , my boy , And noble offices thou mayst effect Of mediation , after I am dead , Between his greatness and thy other brethren . Therefore omit him not ; blunt not his love , Nor lose the good advantage of his grace By seeming cold or careless of his will . For he is gracious if he be observed ; He hath a tear for pity and a hand Open as day for melting charity ; Yet notwithstanding , being incensed he is flint , As humorous as winter , and as sudden As flaws congealed in the spring of day . His temper therefore must be well observed . Chide him for faults , and do it reverently , When thou perceive his blood inclined to mirth ; But , being moody , give him time and scope Till that his passions , like a whale on ground , Confound themselves with working . Learn this , Thomas , And thou shalt prove a shelter to thy friends , A hoop of gold to bind thy brothers in , That the united vessel of their blood , Mingled with venom of suggestion , Shall never leak , though it do work as strong As aconitum or rash gunpowder .
Do you hear , masters ? Do you hear ?
Why , then , ' tis none to you , for there is nothing either good or bad , but thinking makes it so . To me it is a prison .
Egypt , thou knew 'st too well My heart was to thy rudder tied by th ' strings , And thou shouldst tow me after . O ' er my spirit Thy full supremacy thou knew'st , and that Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods Command me .
If it be that , or any that was hers , It speaks against her with the other proofs .
I pray you , one of you question yond man , if he for gold will give us any food . I faint almost to death .
Hark , a drum !
Give me leave , beseech you . I did send , After the last enchantment you did here , A ring in chase of you . So did I abuse Myself , my servant , and , I fear me , you : Under your hard construction must I sit , To force that on you , in a shameful cunning Which you knew none of yours . What might you think ?
I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a barren rascal . I saw him put down the other day with an ordinary fool that
He is in heaven , where thou shalt never come .
Uninhabitable and almost inaccessible --
I would they were , that I might die at once , For now they kill me with a living death . Those eyes of thine from mine have drawn salt tears , Shamed their aspect with store of childish drops . These eyes , which never shed remorseful tear -- No , when my father York and Edward wept To hear the piteous moan that Rutland made When black-faced Clifford shook his sword at him ; Nor when thy warlike father , like a child , Told the sad story of my father 's death And twenty times made pause to sob and weep , That all the standers - by had wet their cheeks Like trees bedashed with rain -- in that sad time , My manly eyes did scorn an humble tear ; And what these sorrows could not thence exhale Thy beauty hath , and made them blind with weeping . I never sued to friend , nor enemy ; My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word . But now thy beauty is proposed my fee , My proud heart sues , and prompts my tongue to speak .
I would I knew not why it should be slowed . -- Look , sir , here comes the lady toward my cell .
This argues fruitfulness and liberal heart . Hot , hot , and moist . This hand of yours requires A sequester from liberty , fasting , and prayer ,
Scratching could not make it worse an ' twere such a face as yours were .
Certain , ' tis certain ; very sure , very sure . Death , as the Psalmist saith , is certain to all . All shall die . How a good yoke of bullocks at Stamford Fair ?
Will you to Scone ?
If so , then be not tongue - tied . Go with me , And in the breath of bitter words let 's smother My damned son that thy two sweet sons smothered .
Her C' s , her U 's and her T 's . Why that ?
I 'll be your foil , Laertes . In mine ignorance Your skill shall , like a star i ' th ' darkest night , Stick fiery off indeed .
Marry , but you shall have , and here 's my hand .
I would I were as sure of a good dinner .
Take thy face hence .
The sum of all I can , I have disclosed . Why , or for what , the nobles were committed Is all unknown to me , my gracious lord .
Hear me , Beatrice - -
Your lieutenant , if you list . He 's no standard .
Shall we call in th ' ambassador , my liege ?
A parlous boy ! Go to , you are too shrewd .
I go .
He 's gone .
For what sum ?
Stanley , look to your wife . If she convey Letters to Richmond , you shall answer it .
By the Mass , you 'll crack a quart together , ha , will you not , Master Bardolph ?
Wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly rascally sheep - biter come by some notable shame ?
Be simple - answered , for we know the truth .
I do not understand .
You may , but if he had been a man 's tailor , he 'd ha ' pricked you . --Wilt thou make as many holes in an enemy 's battle as thou hast done in a woman 's petticoat ?
He were the worse for that , were he a horse ; So is he , being a man .
I pray you , do not fall in love with me , For I am falser than vows made in wine . Besides , I like you not . If you will know my house , ' Tis at the tuft of olives , here hard by . --Will you go , sister?- -Shepherd , ply her hard . --Come , sister . --Shepherdess , look on him better , And be not proud . Though all the world could see , None could be so abused in sight as he . --Come , to our flock .
How " seventh cause " ?- -Good my lord , like this fellow .
Why , this was molded on a porringer ! A velvet dish ! Fie , fie , ' tis lewd and filthy ! Why , ' tis a cockle or a walnut shell , A knack , a toy , a trick , a baby 's cap . Away with it ! Come , let me have a bigger .
Content . What 's the wager ?
Oh , ay . Stalk on , stalk on ; the fowl sits . --I did never think that lady would have loved any man .
" The thrice three Muses mourning for the death Of learning , late deceased in beggary . " That is some satire , keen and critical , Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony . " A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus And his love Thisbe . Very tragical mirth . " " Merry " and " tragical " ? " Tedious " and " brief " ? That is hot ice and wondrous strange snow . How shall we find the concord of this discord ?
Captain ? Thou abominable damned cheater , art thou not ashamed to be called captain ? An captains were of my mind , they would truncheon you out for taking their names upon you before you have earned them . You a captain ? You slave ,
Now , by the holy mother of our Lord , The citizens are mum , say not a word .
This is a brave night to cool a courtesan . I 'll speak a prophecy ere I go . When priests are more in word than matter , When brewers mar their malt with water , When nobles are their tailors ' tutors , No heretics burned but wenches ' suitors , When every case in law is right , No squire in debt nor no poor knight , When slanders do not live in tongues , Nor cutpurses come not to throngs , When usurers tell their gold i ' th ' field , And bawds and whores do churches build -- Then shall the realm of Albion Come to great confusion . Then comes the time , who lives to see ' t , That going shall be used with feet . This prophecy Merlin shall make , for I live before his time .
Reputation , reputation , reputation ! Oh , I have lost my reputation ! I have lost the immortal part of myself , and what remains is bestial . My reputation , Iago , my reputation !
The fault will be in the music , cousin , if you be not wooed in good time . If the Prince be too important , tell him there is measure in everything , and so dance out the answer . For hear me , Hero , wooing , wedding , and repenting is as a Scotch jig , a measure , and a cinquepace . The first suit is hot and hasty like a Scotch jig , and full as fantastical ; the wedding , mannerly modest as a measure , full of state and ancientry ; and then comes repentance , and with his bad legs falls into the cinquepace faster and faster till he sink into his grave .
Sir , you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your habit , but your words show you a madman . Why , sir , what ' cerns it you if I wear pearl and gold ? I thank my good father I am able to maintain it .
Ay , my good lord . ' Twas he informed against him , And quit the house on purpose that their punishment Might have the freer course .
I will not fail . ' Tis twenty year till then . I have forgot why I did call thee back .
Well I know the man .
Where shall we go ?
Fled to England ?
Now near enough . Your leafy screens throw down , And show like those you are . --You , worthy uncle , Shall , with my cousin , your right - noble son , Lead our first battle . Worthy Macduff and we Shall take upon 's what else remains to do , According to our order .
Let us entreat you stay till after dinner .
Mine would , sir , were I human .
Follow my voice . We 'll try no manhood here .
That 's very true , my lord .
This murderous shaft that 's shot Hath not yet lighted , and our safest way Is to avoid the aim . Therefore , to horse , And let us not be dainty of leave - taking , But shift away . There 's warrant in that theft Which steals itself when there 's no mercy left .
I should not urge thy duty past thy might . I know young bloods look for a time of rest .
Come hither , my dear Hamlet , sit by me .
By what rule , sir ?
Then is he more beholding to you than I.
Well , I am schooled . Good manners be your speed ! Here come our wives , and let us take our leave .
Farewell , hostess .
Woe that too late repents ! -- O sir , are you come ? Is it your will ? Speak , sir . --Prepare my horses .
We 'll wait upon your lordship .
Kneel not , gentle Portia .
I am sure on ' t , not a word .
Our present musters grow upon the file To five - and - twenty thousand men of choice , And our supplies live largely in the hope Of great Northumberland , whose bosom burns With an incensed fire of injuries .
Who knocks so hard ? Whence come you ? What 's your will ?
Come , come , we know your meaning , brother Gloucester . You envy my advancement , and my friends ' . God grant we never may have need of you .
Lysander , speak again ! Thou runaway , thou coward , art thou fled ? Speak ! In some bush ? Where dost thou hide thy head ?
And , I 'll warrant her , full of game .
The king himself is rode to view their battle .
Heavens make our presence and our practices Pleasant and helpful to him !
Hail !
What bastard doth not ? Who will go with me ? I will proclaim my name about the field . I am the son of Marcus Cato , ho ! A foe to tyrants , and my country 's friend . I am the son of Marcus Cato , ho !
Upon what ground ?
What is thy excellence in a galliard , knight ?
Two thousand ducats by the year of land ! My land amounts not to so much in all . -- That she shall have , besides an argosy That now is lying in Marcellus ' road . What , have I choked you with an argosy ?
What , quite unmanned in folly ?
Alas , good gentleman ! Alas , good Cassio !
Why , I pray you ?
Hence ! Home , you idle creatures get you home ! Is this a holiday ? What , know you not , Being mechanical , you ought not walk Upon a laboring day without the sign Of your profession?- -Speak , what trade art thou ?
She lives , Master Shallow .
All hail , Macbeth , that shalt be king hereafter !
Marry , before he fell down , when he perceived the common herd was glad he refused the crown , he plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his throat to cut . An I had been a man of any occupation , if I would not have taken him at a word , I would I might go to hell among the rogues . And so he fell . When he came to himself again , he said , if he had done or said anything amiss , he desired their worships to think it was his infirmity . Three or four wenches where I stood cried , " Alas , good soul ! " and forgave him with all their hearts . But there 's no heed to be taken of them . If Caesar had stabbed their mothers they would have done no less .
Nay , if our wits run the wild-goose chase , I am done , for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of thy wits than , I am sure , I have in my whole five . Was I with you there for the goose ?
Not I , my lord .
Be merry , Master Bardolph . --And , my little soldier there , be merry .
Yes , and his ill conditions , and , in despite of all , dies for him .
He has killed me , mother . Run away , I pray you !
Sola ! Where , where ?
Why , how now , Hamlet ?
The question then , Lord Hastings , standeth thus : Whether our present five - and - twenty thousand May hold up head without Northumberland .
I am aweary of this moon . Would he would change !
We wait upon your Grace .
What 's here ? A cup , closed in my true love 's hand ? Poison , I see , hath been his timeless end . -- O churl , drunk all , and left no friendly drop To help me after ? I will kiss thy lips . Haply some poison yet doth hang on them , To make me die with a restorative . Thy lips are warm .
Kneel to the duke before he pass the abbey .
I swear to thee , youth , by the white hand of Rosalind , I am that he , that unfortunate he .
Nor I.
Go , sirrah , take them to the buttery And give them friendly welcome every one . Let them want nothing that my house affords .
Thou dar 'st as well be hanged .
Fair Katherine , and most fair , Will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms Such as will enter at a lady 's ear And plead his love suit to her gentle heart ?
Good morrow , Master Gadshill . It holds current that I told you yesternight : there 's a franklin in the Wild of Kent hath brought three hundred marks with him in gold . I heard him tell it to one of his company last night at supper -- a kind of auditor , one that hath abundance of charge too , God knows what . They are up already and call for eggs and butter . They will away presently .
My Lord --
My lord of Orleans , and my Lord High Constable , you talk of horse and armor ?
What , dost thou scorn me for my gentle counsel , And soothe the devil that I warn thee from ? O , but remember this another day , When he shall split thy very heart with sorrow , And say poor Margaret was a prophetess . -- Live each of you the subjects to his hate , And he to yours , and all of you to God 's .
O , cry your mercy , sir . -- Noble philosopher , your company .
Tell me thine first .
You wrong this presence . Therefore speak no more .
That can hardly be , Master Shallow . Do not you grieve at this . I shall be sent for in private to him . Look you , he must seem thus to the world . Fear not your advancements . I will be the man yet that shall make you great .
A pound of that same merchant 's flesh is thine . The court awards it , and the law doth give it .
Some blood drawn on me would beget opinion . Of my more fierce endeavor . I have seen drunkards Do more than this in sport . --Father , father ! -- Stop , stop ! --No help ?
Why , that 's my spirit ! But was not this nigh shore ?
Godspeed , fair Helena ! Whither away ?
There 's beggary in the love that can be reckoned .
The Lord in heaven bless thee , noble Harry !
How ?
I beseech you , what manner of man is he ?
Yes .
Come , stand by me . Fear nothing . --Guard with halberds .
Dost thou say so ?
Sleep thou , and I will wind thee in my arms . Fairies , be gone , and be all ways away .
You must begin " Will you , Orlando -- "
Four legs and two voices -- a most delicate monster . His forward voice now is to speak well of his friend . His backward voice is to utter foul speeches and to detract . If all the wine in my bottle will recover him , I will help his ague . Come . CALIBAN drinks Amen ! I will pour some in thy other mouth .
Captain Macmorris , I think , look you , under your correction , there is not many of your nation --
Call you me daughter ? Now , I promise you You have showed a tender fatherly regard To wish me wed to one half lunatic , A mad - cup ruffian and a swearing Jack , That thinks with oaths to face the matter out .
How all the other passions fleet to air , As doubtful thoughts , and rash - embraced despair , And shuddering fear , and green-eyed jealousy ! O love , be moderate . Allay thy ecstasy . In measure rein thy joy . Scant this excess . I feel too much thy blessing . Make it less , For fear I surfeit .
I will not take her on gift of any man .
I 'll put myself in poor and mean attire And with a kind of umber smirch my face . The like do you . So shall we pass along And never stir assailants .
Alas , sir , are you here ? Things that love night Love not such nights as these . The wrathful skies Gallow the very wanderers of the dark And make them keep their caves . Snce I was man , Such sheets of fire , such bursts of horrid thunder , Such groans of roaring wind and rain I never Remember to have heard . Man 's nature cannot carry Th ' affliction nor the fear .
She speaks . O , speak again , bright angel ! For thou art As glorious to this night , being o'er my head , As is a winged messenger of heaven Unto the white , upturned , wondering eyes Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him When he bestrides the lazy - puffing clouds And sails upon the bosom of the air .
But , were you wedded , you would bear some sway .
Why , gentlemen , you do me double wrong To strive for that which resteth in my choice . I am no breeching scholar in the schools . I 'll not be tied to hours nor ' pointed times But learn my lessons as I please myself . And , to cut off all strife , here sit we down .
Thou , eunuch Mardian !
Whither ?
Awake , sir , awake . Speak to us .
Alack , alack the day !
To what end ? He would make but a sport of it and torment the poor lady worse .
I do not like her name .
I dare say you love him not so ill to wish him here alone , howsoever you speak this to feel other men 's minds . Methinks I could not die anywhere so contented as in the king 's company , his cause being just and his quarrel honorable .
How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us ?
Then heaven Have mercy on me !
Again !
No more be done . We should profane the service of the dead To sing a requiem and such rest to her As to peace - parted souls .
Save thee , friend , and thy music . Dost thou live by thy tabour ?
Sir , you speak nobly .
Yes , sir , but anger hath a privilege .
God bless your worship !
Good meat , sir , is common ; that every churl affords .
Therefore , Lord Constable , haste on Montjoy And let him say to England that we send To know what willing ransom he will give . --Prince Dauphin , you shall stay with us in Rouen .
Sing it . ' Tis no matter how it be in tune , so it make noise enough .
That 's one of them .
If either of you know any inward impediment why you should not be conjoined , charge you on your souls to utter it .
What shall be our sport , then ?
I know him well . You are welcome for his sake .
It were a tedious difficulty , I think , To bring them to that prospect . Damn them then , If ever mortal eyes do see them bolster More than their own ! What then ? How then ? What shall I say ? Where 's satisfaction ? It is impossible you should see this , Were they as prime as goats , as hot as monkeys , As salt as wolves in pride , and fools as gross As ignorance made drunk . But yet , I say , If imputation and strong circumstances Which lead directly to the door of truth Will give you satisfaction , you may have ' t .
O thou pernicious caitiff ! How came you , Cassio , by that handkerchief That was my wife 's ?
I am bid forth to supper , Jessica . There are my keys . --But wherefore should I go ? I am not bid for love . They flatter me . But yet I 'll go in hate to feed upon The prodigal Christian . --Jessica , my girl , Look to my house . I am right loath to go . There is some ill a - brewing towards my rest , For I did dream of money bags tonight .
To the mines ? Tell you the duke it is not so good to come to the mines , for , look you , the mines is not according to the disciplines of the war . The concavities of it is not sufficient , for , look you , th ' athversary , you may discuss unto the duke , look you , is digt himself four yard under the countermines . By Cheshu , I think he will plow up all if there is not better directions .
Well placed ; there stands your friend for the devil . Have at the very eye of that proverb with " A pox of the devil . "
I shall no more to sea , to sea , Here shall I die ashore -- This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man 's funeral . Well , here 's my comfort . The master , the swabber , the boatswain , and I , The gunner and his mate Loved Mall , Meg , and Marian , and Margery , But none of us cared for Kate . For she had a tongue with a tang ,
Caesar , having made use of him in the wars ' gainst Pompey , presently denied him rivality , would not let him partake in the glory of the action , and , not resting here , accuses him of letters he had formerly wrote to Pompey ; upon his own appeal seizes him . So the poor third is up , till death enlarge his confine .
' Tis truly so .
Yes , better , sir .
A calendar , a calendar ! Look in the almanac . Find out moonshine , find out moonshine !
This ancient ruffian , sir , whose life I have spared at suit of his gray beard --
Spent ?
Will you be bound for nothing ? Be mad , good master . Cry " The devil ! "
If it do , you shall have a dozen of cushions again ; you have but eleven now . Come , I charge you both go with me , for the man is dead that you and Pistol beat amongst you .
But wherefore did he take away the crown ?
I learn , you take things ill which are not so , Or being , concern you not .
Come , Dromio , come , these jests are out of season . Reserve them till a merrier hour than this . Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee ?
I cannot tell . But I had as lief take her dowry with this condition : to be whipped at the high cross every morning .
That cannot be , since I am still possessed Of those effects for which I did the murder : My crown , mine own ambition , and my queen . May one be pardoned and retain th ' offense ? In the corrupted currents of this world Offense 's gilded hand may shove by justice , And oft ' tis seen the wicked prize itself Buys out the law . But ' tis not so above . There is no shuffling . There the action lies In his true nature , and we ourselves compelled , Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults , To give in evidence . What then ? What rests ? Try what repentance can . What can it not ? Yet what can it when one can not repent ? O wretched state ! O bosom black as death ! O limed soul that , struggling to be free , Art more engaged ! Help , angels . Make assay . Bow , stubborn knees , and , heart with strings of steel , Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe . All may be well .
Let it shine , then .
When she first met Mark Antony , she pursed up his heart upon the river of Cydnus .
Farewell , thou latter spring . Farewell , All - hallown summer .
What raiment will your Honor wear today ?
Help , help , help ! Here 's a madman will murder me .
Ay , Hal , ' tis hot , ' tis hot . There 's that will sack a city . ( PRINCE HENRY draws it out and finds it to be a bottle of sack )
A gentleman ? What gentleman ?
Come , neighbor , the boy shall lead our horses down the hill . We 'll walk afoot awhile and ease our legs .
I do protest I never injured thee , But love thee better than thou canst devise , Till thou shalt know the reason of my love . And so , good Capulet -- which name I tender As dearly as my own -- be satisfied .
Even this repays me . -- We sent our schoolmaster . Is he come back?- - Love , I am full of lead . -- Some wine , Within there , and our viands ! Fortune knows We scorn her most when most she offers blows .
The southern wind Doth play the trumpet to his purposes , And by his hollow whistling in the leaves Foretells a tempest and a blust'ring day .
O my dear niece , welcome thou art to me , Even daughter , welcome in no less degree .
I know no touch of it , my lord .
My gown .
Ay , so he says .
Come , bustle , bustle . Caparison my horse . -- Call up Lord Stanley ; bid him bring his power . -- I will lead forth my soldiers to the plain , And thus my battle shall be ordered : My foreward shall be drawn out all in length , Consisting equally of horse and foot ; Our archers shall be placed in the midst . John Duke of Norfolk , Thomas Earl of Surrey , Shall have the leading of this foot and horse . They thus directed , we will follow In the main battle , whose puissance on either side Shall be well winged with our chiefest horse . This , and Saint George to boot --What think 'st thou , Norfolk ?
Most fortunately . He hath achieved a maid That paragons description and wild fame , One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens , And in th ' essential vesture of creation Does tire the ingener .
My former speeches have but hit your thoughts , Which can interpret farther . Only I say Things have been strangely borne . The gracious Duncan Was pitied of Macbeth . Marry , he was dead . And the right - valiant Banquo walked too late , Whom , you may say , if ' t please you , Fleance killed , For Fleance fled . Men must not walk too late . Who cannot want the thought how monstrous It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain To kill their gracious father ? Damned fact ! How it did grieve Macbeth ! Did he not straight In pious rage the two delinquents tear That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep ? Was not that nobly done ? Ay , and wisely too , For ' twould have angered any heart alive To hear the men deny ' t . So that , I say , He has borne all things well . And I do think That had he Duncan 's sons under his key -- As , a n't please heaven , he shall not -- they should find What ' twere to kill a father . So should Fleance . But , peace ! For from broad words , and ' cause he failed His presence at the tyrant 's feast , I hear Macduff lives in disgrace . Sir , can you tell Where he bestows himself ?
Hear you , sir . What is the reason that you use me thus ? I loved you ever . But it is no matter . Let Hercules himself do what he may , The cat will mew and dog will have his day .
Have comfort , lady .
Let it fall rather , though the fork invade The region of my heart . Be Kent unmannerly When Lear is mad . What wouldst thou do , old man ? Think 'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak When power to flattery bows ? To plainness honor 's bound When majesty falls to folly . Reserve thy state ,
Though he be honorable --
Good night , good night . Heaven me such uses send , Not to pick bad from bad , but by bad mend !
Do not forget . This visitation Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose . But look , amazement on thy mother sits . O , step between her and her fighting soul . Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works . Speak to her , Hamlet .
I think I had . I never did deny it .
He will stay till ye come .
No marvel then , though he were ill affected . ' Tis they have put him on the old man 's death , To have th ' expense and spoil of his revenues . I have this present evening from my sister Been well informed of them -- and with such cautions That if they come to sojourn at my house I 'll not be there .
Fair youth , I would I could make thee believe I love .
O , swear not by the moon , th ' inconstant moon , That monthly changes in her circle orb , Lest that thy love prove likewise variable .
Come to what is important in ' t . I forgive you the praise .
A vengeance on your crafty withered hide ! Yet I have faced it with a card of ten . ' Tis in my head to do my master good . I see no reason but supposed Lucentio Must get a father , called " supposed Vincentio " -- And that 's a wonder . Fathers commonly Do get their children . But in this case of wooing , A child shall get a sire , if I fail not of my cunning .
I think he will eat all he kills .
If this be so , why blame you me to love you ?
That labor may you save . See where he comes .
My liege , this haste was hot in question , And many limits of the charge set down But yesternight : when all athwart there came A post from Wales loaden with heavy news , Whose worst was that the noble Mortimer , Leading the men of Herefordshire to fight Against the irregular and wild Glendower , Was by the rude hands of that Welshman taken , A thousand of his people butchered , Upon whose dead corpse there was such misuse , Such beastly shameless transformation By those Welshwomen done , as may not be Without much shame retold or spoken of .
A flatterer 's would not , though they do appear As huge as high Olympus .
Signor Benedick , no , for then were you a child .
Godamercy , so should I be sure to be heart - burned !
We wish your peace .
For nature so prepost'rously to err , Being not deficient , blind , or lame of sense , Sans witchcraft could not .
If I live to be as old as Sibylla , I will die as chaste as Diana unless I be obtained by the manner of my father 's will . I am glad this parcel of wooers are so reasonable , for there is not one among them but I dote on his very absence . And I pray God grant them a fair departure .
Bring it after me . I will not be afraid of death and bane , Till Birnam Forest come to Dunsinane .
Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats .
Give me leave , Caesar .
Farewell , good Launcelot .
Do so . Farewell .
The mariners all under hatches stowed , Who , with a charm joined to their suffered labor , I have left asleep . And for the rest o ' th ' fleet , Which I dispersed , they all have met again And are upon the Mediterranean float , Bound sadly home for Naples , Supposing that they saw the king 's ship wracked And his great person perish .
Is ' t possible ? Sits the wind in that corner ?
Whate'er thou art , for thy good caution , thanks . Thou hast harped my fear aright . But one word more --
Lead me on .
I found it by the barrenness ; hard in the palm of the hand .
Lo you , here she comes . This is her very guise ; and , upon my life , fast asleep . Observe her , stand close .
He is wise , And , on my life , hath stol'n him home to bed .
My lord , when at their home I did commend your highness ' letters to them . Ere I was risen from the place that showed My duty kneeling , came there a reeking post , Stewed in his haste , half breathless , panting forth From Goneril his mistress salutations , Delivered letters spite of intermission , Which presently they read , on whose contents They summoned up their meiny , straight took horse , Commanded me to follow and attend The leisure of their answer , gave me cold looks . And meeting here the other messenger , Whose welcome I perceived had poisoned mine -- Being the very fellow which of late Displayed so saucily against your highness -- Having more man than wit about me , drew . He raised the house with loud and coward cries . Your son and daughter found this trespass worth The shame which here it suffers .
A torch for me . Let wantons light of heart Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels . For I am proverbed with a grandsire phrase , I 'll be a candle holder , and look on . The game was ne'er so fair , and I am done .
Like to the time o ' th ' year between the extremes Of hot and cold , he was nor sad nor merry .
If he be , he knows how to turn his girdle .
" If any man of quality or degree within the lists of the army will maintain upon Edmund , supposed Earl of Gloucester , that he is a manifold traitor , let him appear by the third sound of the trumpet . He is bold in his defense . "
Not to his father 's . I spoke with his man .
' Tis burnt , and so is all the meat . What dogs are these ! Where is the rascal cook ? How durst you , villains , bring it from the dresser And serve it thus to me that love it not ? There , take it to you , trenchers , cups , and all ! Throws the meat , &amp; c . about the stage You heedless joltheads and unmannered slaves ! What , do you grumble ? I 'll be with you straight .
Hist ! Romeo , hist ! --Oh , for a falconer 's voice , To lure this tassel - gentle back again ! Bondage is hoarse , and may not speak aloud , Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies , And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine , With repetition of " My Romeo ! "
Look here , and at thy sovereign leisure read The garboils she awaked , at the last , best , See when and where she died .
O gods ! Who is ' t can say " I am at the worst " ? I am worse than e' er I was .
Would Katherine had never seen him , though !
Do not deny to him that you love me .
My best endeavours shall be done herein .
Get horses for your mistress .
There 's gold for thee . Thou must not take my former sharpness ill . I will employ thee back again ; I find thee Most fit for business . Go make thee ready ; Our letters are prepared .
Come hither , fellow . Which way hast thou been ?
Ingratitude , thou marble - hearted fiend , More hideous when thou show 'st thee in a child Than the sea monster .
He receives comfort like cold porridge .
Here stood he in the dark , his sharp sword out , Mumbling of wicked charms , conjuring the moon To stand 's auspicious mistress --
How may we try it further ?
By my troth , thou ' lt set me a - weeping an thou sayest so . Prove that ever I dress myself handsome till thy return . Well , harken a ' th ' end .
Where is he ?
Now old desire doth in his deathbed lie , And young affection gapes to be his heir . That fair for which love groaned for and would die With tender Juliet matched , is now not fair . Now Romeo is beloved and loves again , Alike bewitched by the charm of looks , But to his foe supposed he must complain , And she steal love 's sweet bait from fearful hooks . Being held a foe , he may not have access To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear . And she as much in love , her means much less To meet her new beloved anywhere . But passion lends them power , time means , to meet , Tempering extremities with extreme sweet .
Go ask his name . --If he be married . My grave is like to be my wedding bed .
Why , sir , he comes not .
Thou ' lt be afraid to hear it .
Marry , he must have a long spoon that must eat with the devil .
My name is Roderigo .
Now , Balthazar , As I have ever found thee honest true , So let me find thee still . Take this same letter , And use thou all th ' endeavour of a man In speed to Padua . See thou render this Into my cousin 's hands , Doctor Bellario .
Here , kiss the book . Though thou canst swim like a duck , thou art made like a goose .
Indeed , the French may lay twenty French crowns to one they will beat us , for they bear them on their shoulders . But it is no English treason to cut French crowns , and tomorrow the king himself will be a clipper .
What handkerchief ?
I mean , the matter that you read , my lord .
Who intercepts my expedition ?
We came hither to fight with you .
' Tis easy to ' t , and there I will attend What further comes .
Come , here 's the map . Shall we divide our right According to our threefold order ta'en ?
I am glad of your departure . Adieu , good Monsieur Melancholy .
Of all these bounds , even from this line to this , With shadowy forests and with champains riched , With plenteous rivers and wide - skirted meads , We make thee lady . To thine and Albany 's issue Be this perpetual . --What says our second daughter , Our dearest Regan , wife of Cornwall ? Speak .
I know you , Mistress Dorothy .
Oh , heavy ignorance ! Thou praisest the worst best . But what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed , one that in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself ?
You see her eyes are open .
I pay thy poverty and not thy will .
You embrace your charge too willingly . I think this is your daughter .
He is not there today ; he dines in London .
Your money !
But thou art not quickly moved to strike .
Bless thy five wits .
This is , to give a dog and in recompense desire my dog again .
Let my master in , Luce .
If I do , hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot at me , and he that hits me , let him be clapped on the shoulder and called Adam .
Away , get thee away . Good friend , be gone . Thy comforts can do me no good at all . Thee they may hurt .
You , sir ? Why , what are you ?
Iago .
I see , sir , you are liberal in offers . You taught me first to beg , and now methinks You teach me how a beggar should be answered .
Thus I mend it : Time himself is bald and therefore , to the world 's end , will have bald followers .
O , if it should , how would thy guts fall about thy knees ! But , sirrah , there 's no room for faith , truth , nor honesty in this bosom of thine . It is all filled up with guts and midriff . Charge an honest woman with picking thy pocket ? Why , thou whoreson , impudent , embossed rascal , if there were anything in thy pocket but tavern reckonings , memorandums of bawdy houses , and one poor pennyworth , of sugar candy to make thee long - winded , if thy pocket were enriched with any other injuries but these , I am a villain . And , yet you will stand to it ! You will not pocket up wrong ! Art thou not ashamed ?
Ingrateful fox , ' tis he .
Tush , tush , ' twill not appear .
No , truly .
When the devout religion of mine eye Maintains such falsehood , then turn tears to fires , And these , who , often drowned , could never die , Transparent heretics , be burnt for liars ! One fairer than my love ? The all-seeing sun Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun .
He says so .
Sur mes genoux je vous donne mille remerciments , et je m'estime heureux que j' ai tombe entre les mains d' un chevalier , je pense , le plus brave , vaillant , et tres distingue seigneur d' Angleterre .
If you say , I hope you will not kill me .
The cause is in my will . I will not come . That is enough to satisfy the senate . But for your private satisfaction , Because I love you , I will let you know . Calphurnia here , my wife , stays me at home . She dreamt tonight she saw my statue , Which , like a fountain with an hundred spouts , Did run pure blood . And many lusty Romans Came smiling and did bathe their hands in it . And these does she apply for warnings and portents And evils imminent , and on her knee Hath begged that I will stay at home today .
And we shall be merry ; now comes in the sweet o ' th ' night .
Your lips will feel them the sooner . Shallow again . A more sounder instance . Come .
Get you gone , you dwarf , You minimus of hindering knotgrass made , You bead , you acorn !
Let 's hear . O fie ! The treble jars .
You are unkind , Demetrius . Be not so . For you love Hermia . This you know I know . And here , with all good will , with all my heart , In Hermia 's love I yield you up my part . And yours of Helena to me bequeath , Whom I do love and will do till my death .
Not till you have slept . I fear me you 'll be in till then .
I talked with no man at that hour , my lord .
Is to come fairly off from the great debts Wherein my time something too prodigal Hath left me gaged . To you , Antonio , I owe the most in money and in love , And from your love I have a warranty To unburden all my plots and purposes How to get clear of all the debts I owe .
He breathes , my lord . Were he not warmed with ale , This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly .
Thou stickest a dagger in me . I shall never see my gold again . Fourscore ducats at a sitting ! Fourscore ducats !
Sirrah Jack , thy horse stands behind the hedge . When thou needest him , there thou shalt find him . Farewell , and stand fast .
When griping grief the heart doth wound And doleful dumps the mind oppress , Then music with her silver sound --
It was , so please your highness .
An old hare hoar , And an old hare hoar , Is very good meat in Lent . But a hare that is hoar Is too much for a score When it hoars ere it be spent .
No ? Come , brother ; away ! I will be heard .
I do , truly , for thou swear 'st to me thou art honest . Now , if thou wert a poet , I might have some hope thou didst feign .
Why , then , we kill all our women . We see how mortal an unkindness is to them . If they suffer our departure , death 's the word .
Apollo flies and Daphne holds the chase . The dove pursues the griffin . The mild hind Makes speed to catch the tiger -- bootless speed , When cowardice pursues and valor flies .
Would I had never come from thence , nor you thither .
My deeds upon my head . I crave the law , The penalty , and forfeit of my bond .
Why , what a king is this !
Never , my lord . Therefore prepare to die .
What , boy !
Why should I play the Roman fool and die On mine own sword ? Whiles I see lives , the gashes Do better upon them .
I think so , Charmian . Dull of tongue , and dwarfish . -- What majesty is in her gait ? Remember , If e' er thou looked 'st on majesty .
Something he left imperfect in the state which , since his coming forth , is thought of ; which imports to the kingdom so much fear and danger that his personal return was most required and necessary .
You should hear reason .
Yet I fear him . For in the engrafted love he bears to Caesar --
Shylock , do you hear ?
The heavens were all on fire ; the earth did tremble .
Yes , in truth it is , sir .
Better it were they all came by his father , Or by the father there were none at all , For emulation who shall now be nearest Will touch us all too near if God prevent not . O , full of danger is the duke of Gloucester , And the queen 's sons and brothers haught and proud , And were they to be ruled , and not to rule , This sickly land might solace as before .
Oh , think 'st thou we shall ever meet again ?
Yea , sir .
What wilt thou do ? Thou wilt not murder me ? Help , help , ho !
Unarm , Eros . The long day 's task is done , And we must sleep . That thou depart 'st hence safe Does pay thy labor richly . Go .
Now , darting Parthia , art thou struck , and now Pleased fortune does of Marcus Crassus ' death Make me revenger . Bear the King 's son 's body Before our army . Thy Pacorus , Orodes , Pays this for Marcus Crassus .
Marry , I fare well , For here is cheer enough . Where is my wife ?
To serve me well , you all should do me duty : Teach me to be your queen , and you my subjects . O , serve me well , and teach yourselves that duty !
He doth , for he did bid Antonius Send word to you he would be there tomorrow .
Captain Macmorris , I beseech you now , will you voutsafe me , look you , a few disputations with you as partly touching or concerning the disciplines of the war , the Roman wars ? In the way of argument , look you , and friendly communication , partly to satisfy my opinion , and partly for the satisfaction , look you , of my mind , as touching the direction of the military discipline , that is the point .
Oh , wonder ! How many goodly creatures are there here ! How beauteous mankind is ! O brave new world , That has such people in ' t !
Let us deal justly .
The table 's full .
Not I.
Do it not with poison . Strangle her in her bed , even the bed she hath contaminated .
That from your first of difference and decay Have followed your sad steps .
Lucentio , gentle sir .
Younger than she are happy mothers made .
As good to wink , sweet love , as look on night .
And a famous true subject took him .
' Tis more , ' tis more . His son is elder , sir . His son is thirty .
What news with you , sir ?
Hortensio , hark . This gentleman is happily arrived , My mind presumes , for his own good and ours .
You shall have none ill , sir , for I 'll try if they can lick their fingers .
With him ? Why , ' tis not possible .
Lysander , keep thy Hermia . I will none . If e' er I loved her , all that love is gone . My heart to her but as guest - wise sojourned , And now to Helen is it home returned , There to remain .
Tell me , heavenly bow , If Venus or her son , as thou dost know , Do now attend the queen ? Since they did plot The means that dusky Dis my daughter got , Her and her blind boy 's scandaled company I have forsworn .
Your ships are not well manned , Your mariners are muleteers , reapers , people Engrossed by swift impress . In Caesar 's fleet Are those that often have ' gainst Pompey fought . Their ships are yare , yours , heavy . No disgrace Shall fall you for refusing him at sea , Being prepared for land .
You shall not come to them .
No , sooth , sir . My determinate voyage is mere extravagancy . But I perceive in you so excellent a touch of modesty that you will not extort from me what I am willing to keep in . Therefore it charges me in manners the rather to express myself . You must know of me then , Antonio , my name is Sebastian , which I called Roderigo . My father was that Sebastian of Messaline , whom I know you have heard of . He left behind him myself and a sister , both born in an hour . If the heavens had been pleased , would we had so ended ! But you , sir , altered that , for some hour before you took me from the breach of the sea was my sister drowned .
Master , some show to welcome us to town .
He is coming .
Ay , Biddy , come with me . --What , man ! ' Tis not for gravity to play at cherry - pit with Satan . Hang him , foul collier !
How to prevent the fiend and to kill vermin .
Bid him prepare , for I will cut his throat .
I did not think , sir , to have met you here .
Oh , she knew well Thy love did read by rote , that could not spell . But come , young waverer , come , go with me , In one respect I 'll thy assistant be , For this alliance may so happy prove To turn your households ' rancor to pure love .
Well . -- Now come , my Ariel ! Bring a corollary , Rather than want a spirit . Appear and pertly ! --
I conjure you by that which you profess -- Howe'er you come to know it -- answer me . Though you untie the winds and let them fight Against the churches , though the yeasty waves Confound and swallow navigation up , Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down , Though castles topple on their warders ' heads , Though palaces and pyramids do slope Their heads to their foundations , though the treasure Of nature 's germens tumble all together , Even till destruction sicken , answer me To what I ask you .
Ay , madam .
Words before blows . Is it so , countrymen ?
Oh , here comes my Nurse , And she brings news , and every tongue that speaks But Romeo 's name speaks heavenly eloquence . -- Now , Nurse , what news ? What hast thou there ? The cords That Romeo bid thee fetch ?
Blood hath been shed ere now , i ' th ' olden time , Ere humane statute purged the gentle weal ; Ay , and since too , murders have been performed Too terrible for the ear . The time has been That , when the brains were out , the man would die , And there an end . But now they rise again With twenty mortal murders on their crowns And push us from our stools . This is more strange Than such a murder is .
Now Edmund , where 's the villain ?
If that may be then all is well . Come , sit down , every mother 's son , and rehearse your parts . --Pyramus , you begin . When you have spoken your speech , enter into that brake . --And so everyone according to his cue .
Good signors both , when shall we laugh ? Say , when ? You grow exceeding strange . Must it be so ?
Thou hast faced many things .
To be sure of that , I will ask Antony . Sir , sir , thou art so leaky That we must leave thee to thy sinking , for Thy dearest quit thee .
So may you lose your arms . If you strike me , you are no gentleman ; And if no gentleman , why then no arms .
Very like . Stayed it long ?
Ay , that incestuous , that adulterate beast , With witchcraft of his wit , with traitorous gifts -- O wicked wit and gifts , that have the power So to seduce ! -- won to his shameful lust The will of my most seeming - virtuous queen . O Hamlet , what a falling off was there ! From me , whose love was of that dignity That it went hand in hand even with the vow I made to her in marriage , and to decline Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor To those of mine . But virtue , as it never will be moved , Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven , So lust , though to a radiant angel linked , Will sate itself in a celestial bed And prey on garbage . But soft ! Methinks I scent the morning air . Brief let me be . Sleeping within my orchard , My custom always of the afternoon , Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial , And in the porches of my ears did pour The leperous distilment , whose effect Holds such an enmity with blood of man That swift as quicksilver it courses through The natural gates and alleys of the body And with a sudden vigor doth posset And curd , like eager droppings into milk , The thin and wholesome blood . So did it mine . And a most instant tetter barked about , Most lazar-like , with vile and loathsome crust All my smooth body . Thus was I , sleeping , by a brother 's hand Of life , of crown , of queen at once dispatched , Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin ,
My lord , I have remembrances of yours That I have longed long to redeliver . I pray you now receive them .
No further , sir . A man may rot even here .
Infected be the air whereon they ride , And damned all those that trust them ! I did hear The galloping of horse . Who was ' t came by ?
I remember thine eyes well enough . Dost thou squiny at me ? No , do thy worst , blind Cupid . I 'll not love . Read thou this challenge . Mark but the penning of it .
I think his soul is in hell , madonna .
My lord .
What , is the man lunatic ?
Take heed , sirrah-- the whip .
Our great navy 's rigged .
And you must cut this flesh from off his breast . The law allows it , and the court awards it .
Do so , and ' tis well .
Away with him ! Who hath made this havoc with them ?
Not that we love words better , as you do .
Who hath committed them ?
They know their duties .
Under which king , besonian ? Speak or die .
Madman and beggar too .
Humbly , sir , I thank you .
Come , you virtuous ass , you bashful fool , must you be blushing ? Wherefore blush you now ? What a maidenly man - at - arms are you become ! Is ' t such a matter to get a pottle-pot 's maidenhead ?
Nay , he will answer the letter 's master , how he dares , being dared .
The king is coming .
Why , now you speak Like a good child and a true gentleman . That I am guiltless of your father 's death And am most sensible in grief for it , It shall as level to your judgment pierce As day does to your eye .
No , Regan , thou shalt never have my curse . Thy tender - hafted nature shall not give Thee o'er to harshness . Her eyes are fierce , but thine Do comfort and not burn . ' Tis not in thee To grudge my pleasures , to cut off my train , To bandy hasty words , to scant my sizes , And in conclusion to oppose the bolt Against my coming in . Thou better know 'st The offices of nature , bond of childhood , Effects of courtesy , dues of gratitude . Thy half o ' th ' kingdom hast thou not forgot , Wherein I thee endowed .
More strange than true . I never may believe These antique fables nor these fairy toys . Lovers and madmen have such seething brains , Such shaping fantasies , that apprehend More than cool reason ever comprehends . The lunatic , the lover , and the poet Are of imagination all compact . One sees more devils than vast hell can hold -- That is the madman . The lover , all as frantic , Sees Helen 's beauty in a brow of Egypt . The poet 's eye , in fine frenzy rolling , Doth glance from heaven to Earth , from Earth to heaven . And as imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown , the poet 's pen Turns them to shapes and gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name . Such tricks hath strong imagination , That if it would but apprehend some joy , It comprehends some bringer of that joy . Or in the night , imagining some fear , How easy is a bush supposed a bear !
Good my lord --
Peace , Kent . Come not between the dragon and his wrath . I loved her most and thought to set my rest On her kind nursery . --
Is execution done on Cawdor ? Are not Those in commission yet returned ?
Ay , marry , sir , now it begins to work .
Peace , children , peace . The king doth love you well . Incapable and shallow innocents , You cannot guess who caused your father 's death .
Puff ? Puff in thy teeth , most recreant coward base ! -- Sir John , I am thy Pistol and thy friend , And helter-skelter have I rode to thee , And tidings do I bring , and lucky joys , And golden times , and happy news of price .
Upon such sacrifices , my Cordelia , The gods themselves throw incense . Have I caught thee ? He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven And fire us hence like foxes . Wipe thine eyes .
Do you confess the bond ?
My lord ?
As ' tis said , the bastard son of Gloucester .
Thou art too like the spirit of Banquo . Down ! Thy crown does sear mine eyeballs . And thy hair , Thou other gold - bound brow , is like the first . A third is like the former . --Filthy hags ! Why do you show me this ? A fourth ? Start , eyes ! What , will the line stretch out to th ' crack of doom ? Another yet ? A seventh ? I 'll see no more . And yet the eighth appears , who bears a glass Which shows me many more , and some I see That twofold balls and treble scepters carry . Horrible sight ! Now I see ' tis true ; For the blood - boltered Banquo smiles upon me And points at them for his .
This wretch hath part confessed his villainy . Did you and he consent in Cassio 's death ?
Where , good Mistress Mary ?
Neighbors , you are tedious .
There 's a merry heart ! --Good Master Silence , I 'll give you a health for that anon .
Let him go up into the public chair . We 'll hear him . --Noble Antony , go up .
So shaken as we are , so wan with care , Find we a time for frighted peace to pant And breathe short - winded accents of new broils To be commenced in strands afar remote . No more the thirsty entrance of this soil Shall daub her lips with her own children 's blood . Nor more shall trenching war channel her fields , Nor bruise her flow'rets with the armed hoofs Of hostile paces . Those opposed eyes , Which , like the meteors of a troubled heaven , All of one nature , of one substance bred , Did lately meet in the intestine shock And furious close of civil butchery Shall now , in mutual well - beseeming ranks , March all one way and be no more opposed Against acquaintance , kindred , and allies . The edge of war , like an ill - sheathed knife , No more shall cut his master . Therefore , friends , As far as to the sepulcher of Christ -- Whose soldier now , under whose blessed cross We are impressed and engaged to fight -- Forthwith a power of English shall we levy , Whose arms were molded in their mothers ' womb To chase these pagans in those holy fields Over whose acres walked those blessed feet Which fourteen hundred years ago were nailed For our advantage on the bitter cross .
What sense had I in her stol'n hours of lust ? I saw ' t not , thought it not , it harmed not me . I slept the next night well , fed well , was free and merry . I found not Cassio 's kisses on her lips . He that is robbed , not wanting what is stol'n , Let him not know't , and he 's not robbed at all .
Then like a Roman bear the truth I tell . For certain she is dead , and by strange manner .
Give me thy hand . I am sorry I beat thee . But while thou livest , keep a good tongue in thy head .
Not a false gallop .
Was my father a traitor , Mother ?
Of your philosophy you make no use If you give place to accidental evils .
What a haste looks through his eyes ! So should he look That seems to speak things strange .
It is his hand , my lord , but I hope his heart is not in the contents .
Oh , fie upon thee , strumpet !
We 'll wait upon your lordship .
Most veritable , therefore look to ' t well .
Master Constable - -
Here comes my servant Travers , who I sent On Tuesday last to listen after news .
Go to the pulpit , Brutus .
In her forehead , armed and reverted , making war against her heir .
So methinks .
It was , as I have seen it in his life , A sable silvered .
Armed , brother ?
No , he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in Athens .
True . Save means to live .
By my troth , Nerissa , my little body is aweary of this great world .
Ay , every man away . Brutus shall lead , and we will grace his heels With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome .
Come , sit thee down upon this flowery bed While I thy amiable cheeks do coy , And stick musk roses in thy sleek , smooth head , And kiss thy fair large ears , my gentle joy .
Oh , my lord , wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body , we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory . I am sorry for her , as I have just cause , being her uncle and her guardian .
Get him to say his prayers , good Sir Toby , get him to pray .
Faith , her privates we .
We follow thee . --Juliet , the county stays .
All offenses , my lord , come from the heart . Never came any from mine that might offend your Majesty .
What beast was ' t , then , That made you break this enterprise to me ? When you durst do it , then you were a man ; And to be more than what you were , you would Be so much more the man . Nor time nor place Did then adhere , and yet you would make both . They have made themselves , and that their fitness now Does unmake you . I have given suck , and know How tender ' tis to love the babe that milks me . I would , while it was smiling in my face , Have plucked my nipple from his boneless gums And dashed the brains out , had I so sworn as you Have done to this .
What dost thou think ?
He 's gone , but his wife 's killed .
Hold , Toby ! On thy life I charge thee , hold !
Go on . Right royal .
I will not stay to offend you .
It is the most impenetrable cur That ever kept with men .
No , It is thyself , mine own self 's better part , Mine eye 's clear eye , my dear heart 's dearer heart , My food , my fortune , and my sweet hope 's aim , My sole earth 's heaven , and my heaven 's claim .
Time is a very bankrout and owes more than he 's worth to season . Nay , he 's a thief too . Have you not heard men say That time comes stealing on by night and day ? If he be in debt and theft , and a sergeant in the way , Hath he not reason to turn back an hour in a day ?
Crying " O dear Cassio ! " as it were . His gesture imports it .
He is of a very melancholy disposition .
I would have stayed till I had made you merry If worthier friends had not prevented me .
They did , Fluellen .
Here comes the Earl .
How many gentlemen have you lost in this action ?
O master , master , I have watched so long That I am dog - weary , but at last I spied An ancient angel coming down the hill Will serve the turn .
Did I , Bardolph ?
What are you here that cry so grievously ?
Never fear that . If he be so resolved , I can o'ersway him . For he loves to hear That unicorns may be betrayed with trees , And bears with glasses , elephants with holes , Lions with toils , and men with flatterers . But when I tell him he hates flatterers , He says he does , being then most flattered . Let me work . For I can give his humor the true bent , And I will bring him to the Capitol .
Weapons , arms ? What 's the matter here ?
Yes , faith , will I , Fridays and Saturdays and all .
To be acknowledged , madam , is o'erpaid . All my reports go with the modest truth , Nor more , nor clipped , but so .
We therefore have great cause of thankfulness And shall forget the office of our hand Sooner than quittance of desert and merit According to the weight and worthiness .
Richmond is on the seas .
What 's his weapon ?
How now , good Blunt ? Thy looks are full of speed .
Is Caesar with Antonius prized so slight ?
Hold , hurt him not , for God 's sake . He is mad . -- Some get within him ; take his sword away . Bind dromio too , and bear them to my house !
My lord , I have considered in my mind The late request that you did sound me in .
Oh , heaven forgive us !
May you stead me ? Will you pleasure me ? Shall I know your answer ?
I dare , and do defy thee for a villain .
Well , be honest , be honest ; and God bless your expedition !
Why do you speak to me ? I never hurt you . You drew your sword upon me without cause , But I bespoke you fair and hurt you not .
Why then , your other senses grow imperfect By your eyes ' anguish .
Sooth , la , I 'll help . Thus it must be .
I am very sorry that you are not well .
But where is he ?
Have patience , sir . O , let it not be so . Herein you war against your reputation , And draw within the compass of suspect Th ' unviolated honor of your wife . Once this : your long experience of her wisdom , Her sober virtue , years , and modesty Plead on her part some cause to you unknown . And doubt not , sir , but she will well excuse Why at this time the doors are made against you . Be ruled by me ; depart in patience , And let us to the Tiger all to dinner , And about evening come yourself alone To know the reason of this strange restraint . If by strong hand you offer to break in Now in the stirring passage of the day , A vulgar comment will be made of it ; And that supposed by the common rout Against your yet ungalled estimation That may with foul intrusion enter in And dwell upon your grave when you are dead ; For slander lives upon succession , Forever housed where it gets possession .
Would all the world but he had quite forsworn ! For me , that I may surely keep mine oath , I will be married to a wealthy widow , Ere three days pass , which hath as long loved me As I have loved this proud disdainful haggard . And so farewell , Signior Lucentio . Kindness in women , not their beauteous looks , Shall win my love , and so I take my leave , In resolution as I swore before .
I thank you . God be with you .
My husband !
What is it , my good friends ?
The heavens forbid But that our loves and comforts should increase , Even as our days do grow .
If you will see a pageant truly played Between the pale complexion of true love And the red glow of scorn and proud disdain , Go hence a little , and I shall conduct you , If you will mark it .
She is not worth thee , then . What years , i ' faith ?
Come , for the third , Laertes . You do but dally . I pray you , pass with your best violence . I am afeard you make a wanton of me .
Oh . As true as truest horse that yet would never tire .
Come hither , sirrah . In Parthia did I take thee prisoner . And then I swore thee , saving of thy life , That whatsoever I did bid thee do , Thou shouldst attempt it . Come now , keep thine oath . Now be a free man , and with this good sword That ran through Caesar 's bowels , search this bosom . Stand not to answer . Here take thou the hilts And , when my face is covered , as ' tis now , Guide thou the sword .
Truly , by your office you may , but I think they that touch pitch will be defiled . The most peaceable way for you , if you do take a thief , is to let him show himself what he is and steal out of your company .
Alas , I took great pains to study it , and ' tis poetical .
But to stand stained with travel and sweating with desire to see him , thinking of nothing else , putting all affairs else in oblivion , as if there were nothing else to be done but to see him .
Now , if you love me , stay .
Weep not , sweet queen , for trickling tears are vain .
If thou art changed to aught , ' tis to an ass .
You 'll find it otherwise , I assure you . Therefore , if you hold your life at any price , betake you to your guard , for your opposite hath in him what youth , strength , skill , and wrath can furnish man withal .
Royal Lear , Whom I have ever honored as my king , Loved as my father , as my master followed , As my great patron thought on in my prayers --
In cash , most justly paid .
Why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady ?
You are as good as a chorus , my lord .
Let me stand here till thou remember it .
Why , may one ask ?
Uncle , this is a Montague , our foe , A villain that is hither come in spite To scorn at our solemnity this night .
What said the wench when he rose again ?
Upon my honor --
A Norman .
Sweet mistress -- what your name is else I know not , Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine , --
Sir , you are very welcome to our house . It must appear in other ways than words , Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy .
Pray , write down , " Borachio . " --Yours , sirrah ?
It is no boast , being asked , to say we are .
like gilt twopences to me , and I in the clear sky of fame o'ershine you as much as the full moon doth the cinders of the element , believe not the word of the noble . Therefore let me have right , and let desert mount .
O , look , Titinius , look , the villains fly ! Myself have to mine own turned enemy . This ensign here of mine was turning back . I slew the coward and did take it from him .
Peace ! I will stop your mouth .
Importune him once more to go , my lord . His wits begin t ' unsettle .
Trust not my reading nor my observations , Which with experimental seal doth warrant The tenor of my book ; trust not my age , My reverence , calling , nor divinity , If this sweet lady lie not guiltless here Under some biting error .
Ay , on my life , and hopes to find you forward Upon his party for the gain thereof ; And thereupon he sends you this good news , That this same very day your enemies , The kindred of the queen , must die at Pomfret .
I am sure he is , to the hearing of any thing good . --Go pluck him by the elbow . I must speak with him .
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep As watchman to my heart . But , good my brother , Do not , as some ungracious pastors do , Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven Whiles , like a puffed and reckless libertine , Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads And recks not his own rede .
And of the heat of the ginger . It is a beast for Perseus . He is pure air and fire ; and the dull elements of earth and water never appear in him , but only in patient stillness while his rider mounts him . He is indeed a horse , and all other jades you may call beasts .
This is the tune of our catch , played by the picture of Nobody .
You shall confess that you are both deceived . Here , as I point my sword , the sun arises , Which is a great way growing on the south , Weighing the youthful season of the year . Some two months hence up higher toward the north He first presents his fire , and the high east Stands , as the Capitol , directly here .
He called her " whore . " A beggar in his drink Could not have laid such terms upon his callet .
I do not fear it . I have seen you both . But since he is better we have therefore odds .
Upon my life , my lord , I 'll undertake it . And so God give you quiet rest tonight !
Do you perceive the gastness of her eye?- -Stay you , good gentlemen . --Look you pale , mistress?- - Nay , if you stare , we shall hear more anon . -- Behold her well . I pray you , look upon her . Do you see , gentlemen ? Nay , guiltiness Will speak , though tongues were out of use .
Faith , half asleep .
What is his name ?
But what said Jaques ? Did he not moralize this spectacle ?
Fail not our feast .
In the same figure like the king that 's dead .
Me believe it ? You may as soon make her that you love believe it , which I warrant she is apter to do than to confess she does . That is one of the points in the which women still give the lie to their consciences . But , in good sooth , are you he that hangs the verses on the trees wherein Rosalind is so admired ?
So are the Prince and Claudio , who accused her Upon the error that you heard debated . But Margaret was in some fault for this , Although against her will , as it appears In the true course of all the question .
By my sword , Beatrice , thou lovest me .
Sir , my liege , Do not infest your mind with beating on The strangeness of this business . At picked leisure Which shall be shortly , single I 'll resolve you -- Which to you shall seem probable -- of every These happened accidents . Till when , be cheerful And think of each thing well . Come hither , spirit . Set Caliban and his companions free . Untie the spell .
Wherefore did they not That hour destroy us ?
Humbly I thank your grace . Here is the man , this Moor , whom now it seems , Your special mandate for the state affairs Hath hither brought .
My lord , I have news to tell you .
So was I when your Highness took his dukedom . So was I when your Highness banished him . Treason is not inherited , my lord , Or if we did derive it from our friends , What 's that to me ? My father was no traitor . Then , good my liege , mistake me not so much To think my poverty is treacherous .
Oh , a good wish upon you . You will try in time , in despite of a fall . But turning these jests out of service , let us talk in good earnest . Is it possible on such a sudden you should fall into so strong a liking with old Sir Rowland 's youngest son ?
If thou more murmur'st , I will rend an oak And peg thee in his knotty entrails till Thou hast howled away twelve winters .
Nay then , come on , and take the chance of anger .
Good Monsieur Charles , what 's the new news at the new court ?
Your Worship is deceived . The gown is made Just as my master had direction . Grumio gave order how it should be done .
Ay , what 's o'clock ?
Up from my cabin , My sea - gown scarfed about me , in the dark Groped I to find out them , had my desire , Fingered their packet , and in fine withdrew To mine own room again , making so bold to unseal Their grand commission , where I found , Horatio -- O royal knavery ! -- an exact command , Larded with many several sorts of reasons Importing Denmark 's health , and England 's too , With -- ho ! -- such bugs and goblins in my life That , on the supervise ( no leisure bated , No , not to stay the grinding of the ax ) My head should be struck off .
Have with you . Fare you well .
As good as heart can wish . The King is almost wounded to the death , And , in the fortune of my lord your son , Prince Harry slain outright ; and both the Blunts Killed by the hand of Douglas ; young Prince John And Westmoreland and Stafford fled the field ; And Harry Monmouth 's brawn , the hulk Sir John , Is prisoner to your son . O , such a day , So fought , so followed , and so fairly won , Came not till now to dignify the times Since Caesar 's fortunes .
Welcome , Iago . We must to the watch .
Friend Launcelot , what 's the news ?
This same should be the voice of Friar John . Welcome from Mantua . What says Romeo ? Or , if his mind be writ , give me his letter .
Les ongles ? Nous les appelons " de nails . "
I will deliver her .
The music , ho !
This afternoon , sir ? Well , she shall be there .
worst side , were it worse than the name of rebellion can tell how to make it .
That 's as much as to say they are fools that marry . You 'll bear me a bang for that , I fear . Proceed , directly .
Where is the Master , Boatswain ?
All hail , Macbeth ! Hail to thee , thane of Cawdor !
O Goneril , You are not worth the dust which the rude wind Blows in your face . I fear your disposition . That nature , which contemns its origin Cannot be bordered certain in itself . She that herself will sliver and disbranch From her material sap perforce must wither And come to deadly use .
First , rehearse your song by rote , To each word a warbling note . Hand in hand with fairy grace Will we sing and bless this place .
I do not know . I am sure I am none such .
Come on , Nerissa , I have work in hand That you yet know not of . We 'll see our husbands Before they think of us .
Why ?
" With a small - compassed cape -- "
But here comes Antony . --Welcome , Mark Antony .
Now until the break of day , Through this house each fairy stray . To the best bride bed will we , Which by us shall blessed be . And the issue there create Ever shall be fortunate . So shall all the couples three Ever true in loving be . And the blots of Nature 's hand Shall not in their issue stand .
By my troth , your town is troubled with unruly boys .
That 's all one : has hurt me , and there 's the end on ' t . ( to FOOL ) Sot , didst see Dick Surgeon , sot ?
There is further compliment of leave-taking between France and him . Pray you , let 's sit together . If our father carry authority with such dispositions as he bears , this last surrender of his will but offend us .
Of a snail ?
Trow you who hath done this ?
Then both , or one , or anything thou wilt .
Monday , my lord .
What , will you not suffer me ? Nay , now I see She is your treasure , she must have a husband , I must dance barefoot on her wedding day And , for your love to her , lead apes in hell . Talk not to me . I will go sit and weep Till I can find occasion of revenge .
Good my lord , pardon me , Though I am bound to every act of duty I am not bound to that all slaves are free to . Utter my thoughts ? Why , say they are vile and false , As where 's that palace whereinto foul things Sometimes intrude not ? Who has that breast so pure Wherein uncleanly apprehensions Keep leets and law - days and in sessions sit With meditations lawful ?
Not sick , my lord , unless it be in mind , Nor well , unless in mind . His letter there Will show you his estate .
Well , sir , there rest in your foolery . Is there any ships put forth tonight ? May we be gone ?
I shall see thee , ere I die , look pale with love .
I grant indeed it hath not appeared , and your suspicion is not without wit and judgment . But , Roderigo , if thou hast that in thee indeed , which I have greater reason to believe now than ever --I mean purpose , courage and valor -- this night show it . If thou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona , take me from this world with treachery and devise engines for my life .
The trumpet sounds retreat ; the day is ours . Come , brother , let us to the highest of the field To see what friends are living , who are dead .
What then ?
Do not rise yet . Witness , you ever - burning lights above , You elements that clip us round about , Witness that here Iago doth give up The execution of his wit , hands , heart , To wronged Othello 's service . Let him command , And to obey shall be in me remorse , What bloody business ever .
Sauf votre honneur , me understand vell .
Sweet Sir Andrew !
Ah , dear , if I be so , From my cold heart let heaven engender hail , And poison it in the source , and the first stone Drop in my neck . As it determines , so Dissolve my life ! The next Caesarion smite , Till by degrees the memory of my womb , Together with my brave Egyptians all , By the discandying of this pelleted storm Lie graveless till the flies and gnats of Nile Have buried them for prey !
This ' tis to feel a tale , not to hear a tale .
Madam , methinks , if you did love him dearly , You do not hold the method to enforce The like from him .
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog , being a good kissing carrion -- Have you a daughter ?
What had he done to make him fly the land ?
How now ? Moody ? What is ' t thou canst demand ?
' Tis well you offer it behind her back . The wish would make else an unquiet house .
Was this before the king returned ?
No less ? Nay , bigger . Women grow by men .
Believe me , I cannot .
Welcome to Rome .
Thou bring 'st me happiness and peace , son John , But health , alack , with youthful wings is flown From this bare withered trunk . Upon thy sight My worldly business makes a period . Where is my Lord of Warwick ?
Once more , Cesario , Get thee to yond same sovereign cruelty . Tell her my love , more noble than the world , Prizes not quantity of dirty lands ; The parts that fortune hath bestowed upon her , Tell her , I hold as giddily as fortune ; But ' tis that miracle and queen of gems That nature pranks her in attracts my soul .
Peace be with Burgundy . Since that respects and fortunes are his love , I shall not be his wife .
He is a god and knows What is most right . Mine honor was not yielded , But conquered merely .
No rescue ? What , a prisoner ? I am even The natural fool of fortune . Use me well . You shall have ransom . Let me have surgeons . I am cut to th ' brains .
I have no words . My voice is in my sword . Thou bloodier villain Than terms can give thee out !
You come hither , my lord , to marry this lady ?
My lord , he is but even now gone hence . Here was he merry , hearing of a song .
There 's enough to make us all .
Here , Peter Quince .
I have , when you have heard what I can say . And know it now : the senate have concluded To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar .
A friend .
Good friends , go in and taste some wine with me . And we , like friends , will straightway go together .
Zounds , ' tis even now at my elbow , persuading me not to kill the duke .
I dare avouch it , sir . What , fifty followers ? Is it not well ? What should you need of more -- Yea , or so many -- sith that both charge and danger Speak ' gainst so great a number ? How , in one house , Should many people under two commands Hold amity ? ' Tis hard ; almost impossible .
Lady Beatrice , I will get you one .
No wonder , my lord . One lion may when many asses do .
Go to ! Say no more .
Fie ! Your sword upon a woman ?
I come , anon . --But if thou mean 'st not well , I do beseech thee --
Sir , the gods Will have it thus . My master and my lord I must obey .
Pray you , stand farther from me .
O sir , we quarrel in print , by the book , as you have books for good manners . I will name you the degrees : the first , " the retort courteous " ; the second , " the quip modest " ; the third , " the reply churlish " ; the fourth , " the reproof valiant " ; the fifth , " the countercheque quarrelsome " ; the sixth , " the lie with circumstance " ; the seventh , " the lie direct . " All these you may avoid but the lie direct , and you may avoid that , too , with an " if . " I knew when seven justices could not take up a quarrel , but when the parties were met themselves , one of them thought but of an " if , " as : " If you said so , then I said so . " And they shook hands and swore brothers . Your " if " is the only peacemaker : much virtue in " if . "
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there . --Be the players ready ?
I know of none , Nor know I you by voice or any feature . I hate ingratitude more in a man Than lying , vainness , babbling , drunkenness , Or any taint of vice whose strong corruption Inhabits our frail blood --
Would I might But ever see that man !
I pray now , keep below .
Ay , by my faith , that bears a frosty sound .
I care not if I have . It is my study To seem despiteful and ungentle to you . You are there followed by a faithful shepherd . Look upon him , love him ; he worships you .
Well , I would you did like me .
Should have a back or second that might hold If this should blast in proof . --Soft , let me see . -- We 'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings . -- I ha ' t ! When in your motion you are hot and dry , As make your bouts more violent to that end , And that he calls for drink , I 'll have prepared him A chalice for the nonce , whereon but sipping , If he by chance escape your venomed stuck , Our purpose may hold there . --But stay , what noise ?
Oh , she was foul ! -- I scarce did know you , uncle . There lies your niece , Whose breath , indeed , these hands have newly stopped . I know this act shows horrible and grim .
News , my good lord , from Rome .
Therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh . Shed thou no blood , nor cut thou less nor more But just a pound of flesh . If thou takest more Or less than a just pound , be it but so much As makes it light or heavy in the substance Or the division of the twentieth part Of one poor scruple -- nay , if the scale do turn But in the estimation of a hair , Thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate .
No , by my soul , she was not , Nor knew not what she did when she spoke to me , But always hath been just and virtuous In any thing that I do know by her .
And never live to show th ' incredulous world The noble change that I have purposed . Coming to look on you , thinking you dead , And dead almost , my liege , to think you were , I spake unto this crown as having sense , And thus upbraided it : " The care on thee depending Hath fed upon the body of my father ; Therefore thou best of gold art worst of gold . Other , less fine in carat , is more precious , Preserving life in med'cine potable ; But thou , most fine , most honored , most renowned , Hast eat thy bearer up . " Thus , my most royal liege , Accusing it , I put it on my head To try with it , as with an enemy That had before my face murdered my father , The quarrel of a true inheritor . But if it did infect my blood with joy Or swell my thoughts to any strain of pride , If any rebel or vain spirit of mine Did with the least affection of a welcome Give entertainment to the might of it , Let God forever keep it from my head And make me as the poorest vassal is That doth with awe and terror kneel to it .
Keep them off , Bardolph .
Where is your sister , and Hortensio 's wife ?
He said once the devil would have him about women .
May ' t please your highness sit .
Pitiful sight ! Here lies the county slain , And Juliet bleeding , warm and newly dead , Who here hath lain these two days buried . -- Go , tell the Prince . Run to the Capulets . Raise up the Montagues . Some others search .
Make me to see ' t , or at the least so prove it That the probation bear no hinge nor loop To hang a doubt on , or woe upon thy life !
He meant he did me none ; the more my spite .
Our king is not like him in that . He never killed any of his friends .
My lord ?
God match me with a good dancer !
Then ' tis like the breath of an unfee 'd lawyer . You gave me nothing for ' t . --Can you make no use of nothing , nuncle ?
The hand of death hath raught him .
Why , my boy ?
And thus it may be . Come , sir , will you aboard ? I have a health for you .
Being done , there is no pause .
Fear not , my lord . Your servant shall do so .
I could be well moved if I were as you . If I could pray to move , prayers would move me . But I am constant as the northern star , Of whose true - fixed and resting quality There is no fellow in the firmament . The skies are painted with unnumbered sparks . They are all fire and every one doth shine , But there 's but one in all doth hold his place . So in the world . ' Tis furnished well with men , And men are flesh and blood , and apprehensive , Yet in the number I do know but one That unassailable holds on his rank , Unshaked of motion . And that I am he Let me a little show it even in this : That I was constant Cimber should be banished , And constant do remain to keep him so .
Too curst is more than curst . I shall lessen God 's sending that way , for it is said , " God sends a curst cow short horns , " but to a cow too curst , he sends none .
Thou art sensible in nothing but blows , and so is an ass .
A proper squire . And who , and who ? Which way looks he ?
What man is this ?
Why , what canst thou tell , my boy ?
The gods make this a happy day to Antony !
Oh , if a virgin , And your affection not gone forth , I 'll make you The queen of Naples .
It will not speak . Then I will follow it .
" Le foot , " madame , et " le count . "
Know , then , it is your fault that you resign The supreme seat , the throne majestical , The sceptered office of your ancestors , Your state of fortune , and your due of birth , The lineal glory of your royal house , To the corruption of a blemished stock , Whiles in the mildness of your sleepy thoughts , Which here we waken to our country 's good , The noble isle doth want her proper limbs -- Her face defaced with scars of infamy , Her royal stock graft with ignoble plants , And almost shouldered in the swallowing gulf Of dark forgetfulness and deep oblivion ; Which to recure , we heartily solicit Your gracious self to take on you the charge And kingly government of this your land , Not as Protector , steward , substitute , Or lowly factor for another 's gain , But as successively , from blood to blood , Your right of birth , your empery , your own . For this , consorted with the citizens , Your very worshipful and loving friends , And by their vehement instigation , In this just suit come I to move your Grace .
Thou art rash as fire , To say that she was false . Oh , she was heavenly true !
O , that this good blossom could be kept from cankers ! Well , there is sixpence to preserve thee .
Husband ?
Cassius , be constant . Popillius Lena speaks not of our purposes . For , look , he smiles , and Caesar doth not change .
We 'll answer .
With duty and desire we follow you .
Will Caesar weep ?
Benvolio , who began this bloody fray ?
A privilege never to see me more . And from thy hated presence part I so . See me no more , whether he be dead or no .
Well then , the peace which you before so urged Lies in his answer .
You say not right , old man .
Hath no man 's dagger here a point for me ?
" De nails , de arme , de ilbow . "
You may deny that you were not the mean Of my Lord Hastings ' late imprisonment .
So is it , if thou knew 'st our purposes .
Come , come , you answer with an idle tongue .
Doth the man of war stay all night , sir ?
Alas , the storm is come again ! My best way is to creep under his gaberdine . There is no other shelter hereabouts . Misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows . I will here shroud till the dregs of the storm be past .
And did they bid you tell her of it , madam ?
Now are we well resolved , and by God 's help And yours , the noble sinews of our power , France being ours , we 'll bend it to our awe Or break it all to pieces . Or there we 'll sit , Ruling in large and ample empery O ' er France and all her almost kingly dukedoms , Or lay these bones in an unworthy urn , Tombless , with no remembrance over them . Either our history shall with full mouth Speak freely of our acts , or else our grave , Like Turkish mute , shall have a tongueless mouth , Not worshipped with a waxen epitaph .
Peace there ! Hear the noble Antony .
Away , you whoreson upright rabbit , away !
Let me have open means to come to them , And soon I 'll rid you from the fear of them .
Faith , he is posted hence on serious matter . It was great ignorance , Gloucester 's eyes being out , To let him live . Where he arrives he moves All hearts against us . Edmund I think is gone In pity of his misery to dispatch His nighted life ; moreover to descry The strength o ' th ' enemy .
Think not on him till tomorrow . I 'll devise thee brave punishments for him . --Strike up , pipers .
Signor Bassanio !
No.
They 're busy within . You were best knock louder .
Like enough you do . Tomorrow , good Sir Michael , is a day Wherein the fortune of ten thousand men Must bide the touch . For , sir , at Shrewsbury , As I am truly given to understand , The King with mighty and quick - raised power Meets with Lord Harry . And I fear , Sir Michael , What with the sickness of Northumberland , Whose power was in the first proportion , And what with Owen Glendower 's absence thence , Who with them was a rated sinew too And comes not in , o'er - ruled by prophecies , I fear the power of Percy is too weak To wage an instant trial with the King .
I am thus bold to put your Grace in mind Of what you promised me .
Tear him , tear him !
And , in the calmest and most stillest night , With all appliances and means to boot , Deny it to a king ? Then , happy low , lie down . Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown .
Noble Antony , not sickness should detain me .
What is thy name ? I know thy quality .
God ye good morrow , gentlemen .
That I was disdainful and that I had my good wit out of The Hundred Merry Tales ! Well this was Signor Benedick that said so .
Amen , say we . We will be witnesses .
Wherefore ! Why , doth not every earthly thing Cry shame upon her ? Could she here deny The story that is printed in her blood?- - Do not live , Hero , do not ope thine eyes , For , did I think thou wouldst not quickly die , Thought I thy spirits were stronger than thy shames , Myself would , on the rearward of reproaches , Strike at thy life . Grieved I I had but one ? Chid I for that at frugal Nature 's frame ? O , one too much by thee ! Why had I one ? Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes ? Why had I not with charitable hand Took up a beggar 's issue at my gates , Who , smirched thus , and mired with infamy , I might have said , " No part of it is mine ; This shame derives itself from unknown loins " ?
There comes an old man and his three sons --
I will do so . Signior Fabian , stay you by this gentleman till my return .
If she live long , And in the end meet the old course of death , Women will all turn monsters .
No abuse , Ned , i ' th ' world , honest Ned , none . I dispraised him before the wicked , that the wicked might not fall in love with thee ; in which doing , I have done the part of a careful friend and a true subject , and thy father is to give me thanks for it . No abuse , Hal . --None , Ned , none . No , faith , boys , none .
The earth hath bubbles , as the water has , And these are of them . Whither are they vanished ?
At " closes in the consequence . " Ay , marry . He closes thus : " I know the gentleman . I saw him yesterday " -- or " t ' other day , " Or then , or then , with such or such -- " and , as you say , There was he gaming , there o'ertook in 's rouse , There falling out at tennis , " or , perchance , " I saw him enter such a house of sale " -- Videlicet a brothel , or so forth . See you now , Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth . And thus do we of wisdom and of reach , With windlasses and with assays of bias , By indirections find directions out . So by my former lecture and advice Shall you my son . You have me , have you not ?
Then yield thee , coward , And live to be the show and gaze o ' th ' time . We 'll have thee , as our rarer monsters are , Painted on a pole , and underwrit , " Here may you see the tyrant . "
You say that you 'll have Phoebe if she will ?
Where Scotland ?
Seek him and bring him hither . -- Where 's Alexas ?
O , pardonnez-moi !
She loves another --Who calls , ha ?
There is something in the wind , that we cannot get in .
Of that I shall have also cause to speak , And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more . But let this same be presently performed , Even while men 's minds are wild , lest more mischance On plots and errors happen .
I pray thee , bear my former answer back . Bid them achieve me and then sell my bones . Good God , why should they mock poor fellows thus ? The man that once did sell the lion 's skin While the beast lived was killed with hunting him . A many of our bodies shall no doubt Find native graves , upon the which , I trust , Shall witness live in brass of this day 's work . And those that leave their valiant bones in France , Dying like men though buried in your dunghills , They shall be famed ; for there the sun shall greet them And draw their honors reeking up to heaven , Leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime ,
Hound or spaniel , brach or him , Bobtail tyke or trundle - tail -- Tom will make them weep and wail . For with throwing thus my head , Dogs leap the hatch , and all are fled . Be thy mouth or black or white , Do-de , de-de . Cessez ! Come , march to wakes and fairs and market towns . Poor Tom , thy horn is dry .
Captain Fluellen .
Oh , here 's a wit of cheveril , that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad !
And till she come , as truly as to heaven I do confess the vices of my blood So justly to your grave ears I 'll present How I did thrive in this fair lady 's love And she in mine .
What sayest thou , Biondello ?
Your Grace , we think , should soonest know his mind .
It shows my earnestness of affection --
I tell thee she is . Therefore make her grave straight . The crowner hath sat on her and finds it Christian burial .
It was ourself thou didst abuse .
He that is yours , sweet lady .
O Jesu , he doth it as like one of these harlotry players as ever I see .
When Biondello comes , he waits on thee , But I will charm him first to keep his tongue .
It is but foolery , but it is such a kind of gain - giving as would perhaps trouble a woman .
How far is ' t called to Forres? --What are these So withered and so wild in their attire , That look not like th ' inhabitants o ' th ' Earth , And yet are on ' t?- -Live you ? Or are you aught That man may question ? You seem to understand me , By each at once her choppy finger laying Upon her skinny lips . You should be women , And yet your beards forbid me to interpret That you are so .
O Antony , I have followed thee to this , but we do launch Diseases in our bodies . I must perforce Have shown to thee such a declining day , Or look on thine . We could not stall together In the whole world . But yet let me lament With tears as sovereign as the blood of hearts That thou , my brother , my competitor In top of all design , my mate in empire , Friend and companion in the front of war , The arm of mine own body , and the heart Where mine his thoughts did kindle -- that our stars , Unreconcilable , should divide Our equalness to this . Hear me , good friends --
At your noble pleasure .
Shall they see us ?
None , my lord .
Turn from me then that noble countenance Wherein the worship of the whole world lies .
O Setebos , these be brave spirits indeed ! How fine my master is ! I am afraid He will chastise me .
Faith , he tonight hath boarded a land carrack . If it prove lawful prize , he 's made for ever .
" Gamut I am , the ground of all accord : A re , to plead Hortensio 's passion ; B mi , Bianca , take him for thy lord , C fa ut , that loves with all affection ; D sol re , one clef , two notes have I ; E la mi , show pity , or I die . " Call you this " gamut " ? Tut , I like it not . Old fashions please me best . I am not so nice To change true rules for old inventions .
Hath there been such a time --I would fain know that -- That I have positively said , " 'Tis so , " When it proved otherwise ?
Anon , anon ! Come , let 's away . The strangers all are gone .
Nym , thou hast spoke the right . His heart is fracted and corroborate .
My love is thine to teach . Teach it but how , And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn Any hard lesson that may do thee good .
Nay , but ask my opinion too of that !
Come hither , boy . If ever thou shalt love , In the sweet pangs of it remember me ; For such as I am , all true lovers are , Unstaid and skittish in all motions else Save in the constant image of the creature That is beloved . How dost thou like this tune ?
Strike , drum .
Right , as snow in harvest . Come , you deceive yourself . ' Tis he that sends us to destroy you here .
Oh , heaven ! Oh , heavenly powers !
O piteous spectacle !
Where ?
You sent me for a rope 's end as soon . You sent me to the bay , sir , for a bark .
This is as uncivil as strange . I beseech you , do me this courteous office , as to know of the knight what my offense to him is . It is something of my negligence , nothing of my purpose .
The Prince of Wales doth join with all the world In praise of Henry Percy . By my hopes , This present enterprise set off his head , I do not think a braver gentleman , More active - valiant , or more valiant - young , More daring or more bold , is now alive To grace this latter age with noble deeds . For my part , I may speak it to my shame , I have a truant been to chivalry , And so I hear he doth account me too . Yet this before my father 's majesty : I am content that he shall take the odds Of his great name and estimation , And will , to save the blood on either side , Try fortune with him in a single fight .
I will , my lord .
Why , Jessica !
Why did you laugh then , when I said " man delights not me " ?
O , but one word .
Not a mouse stirring .
I must with haste from hence .
O , help him , you sweet heavens !
But have you never found my brother 's way To the forfended place ?
Most heavy day !
Did he receive you well ?
I am your own for ever .
Whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself And you of her , the bloody book of law You shall yourself read in the bitter letter , After your own sense , yea , though our proper son Stood in your action .
An interlude !
Why , look you there ! Look how it steals away -- My father , in his habit as he lived -- Look where he goes , even now , out at the portal !
Ay me !
He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it .
Was the crown offered him thrice ?
Casca , be sudden , for we fear prevention --Brutus , what shall be done ? If this be known , Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back , For I will slay myself .
Madam , I 'll take my leave .
Then there 's life in ' t . Come , an if you get it , you shall get it by running . Sa , sa , sa , sa .
Enjoy thy plainness . It nothing ill becomes thee . -- Aboard my galley I invite you all . Will you lead , lords ?
I have his horse to take up the quarrel . I have persuaded him the youth 's a devil .
Not very well , but I have met him oft , And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds That the old carlot once was master of .
Tomorrow , as he purposes .
I never shall endure her . Dear my lord , Be not familiar with her .
What , ho !
Beseech you , sir , be merry . You have cause , So have we all , of joy , for our escape Is much beyond our loss . Our hint of woe Is common . Every day some sailor 's wife , The masters of some merchant , and the merchant Have just our theme of woe . But for the miracle -- I mean our preservation -- few in millions Can speak like us . Then wisely , good sir , weigh Our sorrow with our comfort .
Why call you me " love " ? Call my sister so .
Where is my mother ? Why , she is within . Where should she be ? How oddly thou repliest ! " Your love says , like an honest gentleman , ' Where is your mother ? ' "
I mean , my head upon your lap ?
Urge me no more , I shall forget myself . Have mind upon your health , tempt me no further .
I have possessed your grace of what I purpose , And by our holy Sabbath have I sworn To have the due and forfeit of my bond . If you deny it , let the danger light Upon your charter and your city 's freedom . You 'll ask me why I rather choose to have A weight of carrion flesh than to receive Three thousand ducats . I 'll not answer that But say it is my humour . Is it answered ? What if my house be troubled with a rat And I be pleased to give ten thousand ducats To have it baned ? What , are you answered yet ?
To suckle fools and chronicle small beer .
This I 'll report , dear lady . Have comfort , for I know your plight is pitied Of him that caused it .
Well , sir , we will not .
Those that have known the earth so full of faults . For my part , I have walked about the streets , Submitting me unto the perilous night , And , thus unbraced , Casca , as you see , Have bared my bosom to the thunder - stone . And when the cross blue lightning seemed to open The breast of heaven , I did present myself Even in the aim and very flash of it .
I would your duty were as foolish too . The wisdom of your duty , fair Bianca , Hath cost me an hundred crowns since suppertime .
Do thy worst . This deed of thine is no more worthy heaven Than thou wast worthy her .
Soldier , why wear 'st thou that glove in thy cap ?
It is the lady that Pyramus must love .
Why not to him in part , and to us all That feel the bruises of the days before And suffer the condition of these times To lay a heavy and unequal hand Upon our honors ?
Sweet Prince , you learn me noble thankfulness . -- There , Leonato , take her back again . Give not this rotten orange to your friend . She 's but the sign and semblance of her honor . Behold how like a maid she blushes here ! Oh , what authority and show of truth Can cunning sin cover itself withal ! Comes not that blood as modest evidence To witness simple virtue ? Would you not swear , All you that see her , that she were a maid By these exterior shows ? But she is none . She knows the heat of a luxurious bed . Her blush is guiltiness , not modesty .
Richard !
My charge was but to fetch you from the mart Home to your house , the Phoenix , sir , to dinner . My mistress and her sister stays for you .
An you lie , sirrah , we 'll have you whipped .
I do remember me , Henry the Sixth Did prophesy that Richmond should be king , When Richmond was a little peevish boy . A king , perhaps --
' Tis well . I 'll have thee speak out the rest soon . Good my lord , will you see the players well bestowed ? Do you hear , let them be well used , for they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the time . After your death you were better have a bad epitaph than their ill report while you live .
Do ' t , knight . I 'll write thee a challenge . Or I 'll deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth .
This the very coinage of your brain . This bodiless creation ecstasy Is very cunning in .
As I was then advised by my learned counsel in the laws of this land - service , I did not come .
Why , ' tis good to be sad and say nothing .
They have made him drink alms - drink .
Thou atomy , thou !
And his opposite , the youth , bears in his visage no great presage of cruelty .
O madam , my old heart is cracked , it 's cracked .
There is no following her in this fierce vein . Here therefore for a while I will remain . So sorrow 's heaviness doth heavier grow For debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe , Which now in some slight measure it will pay , If for his tender here I make some stay .
It was . What sadness lengthens Romeo 's hours ?
Father , what news ? What is the Prince 's doom ? What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand That I yet know not ?
Indeed , he plied them both with excellent praises .
Anon , anon ! I pray you , remember the porter .
And he will bless that cross with other beating . Between you , I shall have a holy head .
Do you not hear , fellows ? Take away the lady .
And when was he wont to wash his face ?
Octavius , lead your battle softly on , Upon the left hand of the even field .
Madam , good hope . His grace speaks cheerfully .
Here 's a knocking indeed ! If a man were porter of hell - gate , he should have old turning the key .
O hell , to choose love by another 's eyes !
Come , Montague , for thou art early up To see thy son and heir now early down .
That by proscription and bills of outlawry , Octavius , Antony , and Lepidus Have put to death an hundred senators .
Now , Catesby , what says his grace ?
Belike you slew great number of his people ?
Laertes , was your father dear to you ? Or are you like the painting of a sorrow , A face without a heart ?
So is mine . --Do you hear , monster ? If I should take a displeasure against you , look you --
Padua affords nothing but what is kind .
Where 's the roll ? Where 's the roll ? Where 's the roll ? Let me see , let me see , let me see . So , so , so , so , so . So , so . Yea , marry , sir . --Rafe Mouldy ! --Let them appear as I call , let them do so , let them do so . Let me see , where is Mouldy ?
The just proportion that we gave them out . Let us sway on and face them in the field .
We , ignorant of ourselves , Beg often our own harms , which the wise powers Deny us for our good , so find we profit By losing of our prayers .
You mean to mock me after , you should not have mocked me before . But come your ways .
Out on you , owls ! Nothing but songs of death . He striketh him There , take thou that till thou bring better news .
Adieu , good neighbor .
Exceeding well . His cares are now all ended .
Be lion - mettled , proud , and take no care Who chafes , who frets , or where conspirers are . Macbeth shall never vanquished be until Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill Shall come against him .
I will not say so , for fear I should be faced out of my way . But I would it were morning , for I would fain be about the ears of the English .
You kiss by th ' book .
I should know that voice . It should be --But he is drowned , and these are devils . Oh , defend me !
Away ! The foul fiend follows me ! Through the sharp hawthorn blows the cold wind . Hum ! Go to thy cold bed and warm thee .
Come , come , dispatch . ' Tis bootless to exclaim .
Here comes your cousin .
I humbly thank you . Well , well , well .
Were I my father , coz , would I do this ?
Patience unmoved ! No marvel though she pause ; They can be meek that have no other cause . A wretched soul , bruised with adversity We bid be quiet when we hear it cry , But were we burdened with like weight of pain , As much or more we should ourselves complain . So thou , that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee , With urging helpless patience would relieve me ; But , if thou live to see like right bereft , This fool - begged patience in thee will be left .
His hour is almost past .
Follow me , then .
Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably .
My excellent good friends ! How dost thou , Guildenstern ? Ah , Rosencrantz ! Good lads , how do you both ?
And so will he do , for the man doth fear God , howsoever it seems not in him by some large jests he will make . Well , I am sorry for your niece . Shall we go seek Benedick and tell him of her love ?
By my troth , I speak my thought .
Of guns , and drums , and wounds --God save the mark ! -- And telling me the sovereignest thing on earth Was parmacety for an inward bruise , And that it was great pity , so it was , This villanous saltpeter should be digged Out of the bowels of the harmless earth , Which many a good tall fellow had destroyed So cowardly , and but for these vile guns He would himself have been a soldier . This bald unjointed chat of his , my lord , I answered indirectly , as I said , And I beseech you , let not his report Come current for an accusation Betwixt my love and your high Majesty .
' Tis done already , and the messenger gone . I have told him , Lepidus was grown too cruel , That he his high authority abused And did deserve his change . For what I have conquered , I grant him part ; but then , in his Armenia , And other of his conquered kingdoms , I Demand the like .
What stays had I but they ? And they are gone .
I will , my lord . There are two gentlemen Have in this robbery lost three hundred marks .
Excellent . It hangs like flax on a distaff . And I hope to see a housewife take thee between her legs and spin it off .
Vouchsafe to those that have not read the story That I may prompt them ; and of such as have , I humbly pray them to admit th ' excuse Of time , of numbers , and due course of things , Which cannot in their huge and proper life Be here presented . Now we bear the king Toward Calais . Grant him there . There seen , Heave him away upon your winged thoughts Athwart the sea . Behold , the English beach Pales in the flood with men , with wives and boys , Whose shouts and claps outvoice the deep - mouthed sea , Which like a mighty whiffler ' fore the king Seems to prepare his way . So let him land , And solemnly see him set on to London . So swift a pace hath thought that even now You may imagine him upon Blackheath , Where that his lords desire him to have borne His bruised helmet and his bended sword Before him through the city . He forbids it , Being free from vainness and self - glorious pride , Giving full trophy , signal , and ostent Quite from himself , to God . But now behold , In the quick forge and workinghouse of thought , How London doth pour out her citizens . The Mayor and all his brethren in best sort , Like to the senators of th ' antique Rome , With the plebeians swarming at their heels , Go forth and fetch their conquering Caesar in -- As , by a lower but loving likelihood ,
We will not look upon him . Go with us .
The more my wrong , the more his spite appears . What , did he marry me to famish me ? Beggars that come unto my father 's door Upon entreaty have a present alms . If not , elsewhere they meet with charity . But I , who never knew how to entreat , Nor never needed that I should entreat , Am starved for meat , giddy for lack of sleep , With oaths kept waking and with brawling fed . And that which spites me more than all these wants , He does it under name of perfect love , As who should say , if I should sleep or eat , ' Twere deadly sickness or else present death . I prithee , go and get me some repast , I care not what , so it be wholesome food .
Spit in the hole , man , and tune again .
What , are there masques ? Hear you me , Jessica . Lock up my doors , and when you hear the drum And the vile squealing of the wry - necked fife , Clamber not you up to the casements then , Nor thrust your head into the public street To gaze on Christian fools with varnished faces . But stop my house 's ears --I mean my casements -- Let not the sound of shallow foppery enter My sober house . By Jacob 's staff , I swear , I have no mind of feasting forth tonight . But I will go . --Go you before me , sirrah . Say I will come .
An he should , it were an alms to hang him . She 's an excellent sweet lady , and , out of all suspicion , she is virtuous .
Why , that 's well said . A good heart 's worth gold . Lo , here comes Sir John .
And that 's true too .
Barnardo has my place . Give you good night .
He is very near by this . He was not three leagues off when I left him .
How now ? What noise is that ?
Sirrah , Falstaff and the rest of the thieves are at the door . Shall we be merry ?
Last night , I hear , they lay at Stony Stratford , And at Northampton they do rest tonight . Tomorrow or next day they will be here .
That can I. At least , the whisper goes so : our last king , Whose image even but now appeared to us , Was , as you know , by Fortinbras of Norway , Thereto pricked on by a most emulate pride , Dared to the combat ; in which our valiant Hamlet Did slay this Fortinbras , who by a sealed compact Well ratified by law and heraldry , Did forfeit , with his life , all those his lands Which he stood seized of to the conqueror , Against the which a moiety competent Was gaged by our king , which had returned To the inheritance of Fortinbras Had he been vanquisher , as , by the same covenant And carriage of the article designed , His fell to Hamlet . Now , sir , young Fortinbras , Of unimproved mettle hot and full , Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there Sharked up a list of lawless resolutes , For food and diet , to some enterprise That hath a stomach in ' t , which is no other -- As it doth well appear unto our state -- But to recover of us , by strong hand
I would not be cured , youth .
But till that time Come not thou near me . And when that time comes , Afflict me with thy mocks , pity me not , As till that time I shall not pity thee .
No , Caesar , we will answer on their charge . Make forth . The generals would have some words .
Ay .
Pink for flower .
My desolation does begin to make A better life . ' Tis paltry to be Caesar . Not being Fortune , he 's but Fortune 's knave , A minister of her will . And it is great To do that thing that ends all other deeds , Which shackles accidents and bolts up change , Which sleeps and never palates more the dung , The beggar 's nurse , and Caesar 's .
Never talk to me . I will weep .
As I am an honest man , he looks pale . --Art thou sick , or angry ?
If there be any impediment , I pray you discover it .
True . And look how well my garments sit upon me , Much feater than before . My brother 's servants Were then my fellows . Now they are my men .
What is the matter ?
Good night , Lord Brutus .
Madam , sleeps still .
Well , my good lord , I have informed them so .
To thirty thousand .
To lend me arms and aid when I required them , The which you both denied .
How now ! What news from her ?
Well , you shall have it , though I pawn my gown . I hope you 'll come to supper . You 'll pay me all together ?
Was he not here ?
Then keep thy vow , sirrah , when thou meet 'st the fellow .
Lord Mayor --
Go after her . She 's desperate . Govern her .
No , Kate ? I will tell thee in French , which I am sure will hang upon my tongue like a new - married wife about her husband 's neck , hardly to be shook off . Je quand sur le possession de France , et quand vous avez le possession de moi -- let me see , what then ? Saint Denis be my speed ! -- donc votre est France et vous etes mienne . It is as easy for me , Kate , to conquer the kingdom as to speak so much more French . I shall never move thee in French , unless it be to laugh at me .
Excellent good , i ' faith .
Good Catesby , go effect this business soundly .
No more . Good night . Early tomorrow will we rise and hence .
' Tis here .
again . And I may say to you , we knew where the bona robas were and had the best of them all at commandment . Then was Jack Falstaff , now Sir John , a boy , and page to Thomas Mowbray , Duke of Norfolk .
Primo , secundo , tertio is a good play , and the old saying is , the third pays for all . The triplex , sir , is a good tripping measure , or the bells of Saint Bennet , sir , may put you in mind -- one , two , three .
I wonder that thou , being , as thou sayst thou art , born under Saturn , goest about to apply a moral medicine to a mortifying mischief . I cannot hide what I am . I must be sad when I have cause and smile at no man 's jests , eat when I have stomach and wait for no man 's leisure , sleep when I am drowsy and tend on no man 's business , laugh when I am merry and claw no man in his humor .
No , by the Holy Rood , thou know 'st it well . Thou cam 'st on earth to make the earth my hell . A grievous burden was thy birth to me ; Tetchy and wayward was thy infancy ; Thy school days frightful , desp'rate , wild , and furious ; Thy prime of manhood daring , bold , and venturous ; Thy age confirmed , proud , subtle , sly , and bloody , More mild , but yet more harmful , kind in hatred . What comfortable hour canst thou name , That ever graced me in thy company ?
Now must I to the monument alone . Within this three hours will fair Juliet wake . She will beshrew me much that Romeo Hath had no notice of these accidents . But I will write again to Mantua , And keep her at my cell till Romeo come . Poor living corse , closed in a dead man 's tomb !
I pray thee , good Leonardo , think on this . These things being bought and orderly bestowed , Return in haste , for I do feast tonight My best esteemed acquaintance . Hie thee , go .
Why , how now , Orlando , where have you been all this while ? You a lover ? An you serve me such another trick , never come in my sight more .
If ' twere not she , I cannot tell who told me .
Be patient till the last . Romans , countrymen , and lovers ! Hear me for my cause , and be silent that you may hear . Believe me for mine honor , and have respect to mine honor that you may believe . Censure me in your wisdom , and awake your senses that you may the better judge . If there be any in this assembly , any dear friend of Caesar 's , to him I say that Brutus ' love to Caesar was no less than his . If then that friend demand why Brutus rose against Caesar , this is my answer : not that I loved Caesar less , but that I loved Rome more .
Ha , ha ! Give me to drink mandragora .
Thou hast forspoke my being in these wars And sayst it is not fit .
tilt - yard , and then he burst his head for crowding among the Marshal 's men . I saw it and told John o ' Gaunt he beat his own name , for you might have thrust him and all his apparel into an eel - skin ; the case of a treble hautboy was a mansion for him , a court . And now has he land and beefs . Well , I 'll be acquainted with him , if I return , and ' t shall go hard but I 'll make him a philosopher 's two stones to me . If the young dace be a bait for the old pike , I see no reason in the law of nature but I may snap at him . Let time shape , and there an end .
Stay , though thou kill me , sweet Demetrius .
Is love a tender thing ? It is too rough , Too rude , too boisterous , and it pricks like thorn .
The man , I do assure you is not here , For I myself at this time have employed him . And , Sheriff , I will engage my word to thee That I will by tomorrow dinner time Send him to answer thee or any man For any thing he shall be charged withal . And so let me entreat you leave the house .
To save your life in this extremity , This favor will I do you for his sake -- And think it not the worst of all your fortunes That you are like to Sir Vincentio -- His name and credit shall you undertake , And in my house you shall be friendly lodged . Look that you take upon you as you should . You understand me , sir . So shall you stay Till you have done your business in the city . If this be court'sy , sir , accept of it .
Think not I love him , though I ask for him . ' Tis but a peevish boy -- yet he talks well -- But what care I for words ? Yet words do well When he that speaks them pleases those that hear . It is a pretty youth -- not very pretty -- But sure he 's proud -- and yet his pride becomes him . He 'll make a proper man . The best thing in him Is his complexion ; and faster than his tongue Did make offense , his eye did heal it up . He is not very tall -- yet for his years he 's tall . His leg is but so - so -- and yet ' tis well . There was a pretty redness in his lip , A little riper and more lusty red Than that mixed in his cheek : ' twas just the difference Betwixt the constant red and mingled damask . There be some women , Silvius , had they marked him In parcels as I did , would have gone near To fall in love with him ; but for my part I love him not nor hate him not ; and yet I have more cause to hate him than to love him . For what had he to do to chide at me ? He said mine eyes were black and my hair black And , now I am remembered , scorned at me . I marvel why I answered not again . But that 's all one : omittance is no quittance . I 'll write to him a very taunting letter , And thou shalt bear it . Wilt thou , Silvius ?
Ay , very well , my lord .
That ? What ?
Who hath he left behind him general ?
Flute , you must take Thisbe on you .
" De sin . " Le col , " de nick " ; le menton , " de sin . "
Sister , it is not a little I have to say of what most nearly appertains to us both . I think our father will hence tonight .
Tranio , you jest . But have you both forsworn me ?
This is old Ninny 's tomb . Where is my love ?
Where the place ?
Tarry , Petruchio , I must go with thee , For in Baptista 's keep my treasure is . He hath the jewel of my life in hold , His youngest daughter , beautiful Bianca , And her withholds from me and other more , Suitors to her and rivals in my love , Supposing it a thing impossible , For those defects I have before rehearsed , That ever Katherina will be wooed . Therefore this order hath Baptista ta'en , That none shall have access unto Bianca Till Katherine the curst have got a husband .
Now , God help thee , poor monkey ! But how wilt thou do for a father ?
Go to him , Dolabella , bid him yield . Being so frustrate , tell him , he mocks The pauses that he makes .
" Seems , " madam ? Nay , it is . I know not " seems . " ' Tis not alone my inky cloak , good mother , Nor customary suits of solemn black , Nor windy suspiration of forced breath , No , nor the fruitful river in the eye , Nor the dejected ' havior of the visage , Together with all forms , moods , shapes of grief , That can denote me truly . These indeed " seem , " For they are actions that a man might play . But I have that within which passeth show , These but the trappings and the suits of woe .
Come between us , good Benvolio . My wits faints .
Help , ho ! Murder , murder !
Relent , and save your souls . Which of you -- if you were a prince 's son Being pent from liberty , as I am now -- If two such murderers as yourselves came to you , Would not entreat for life ? Ay , you would beg , Were you in my distress .
To every article . I boarded the king 's ship . Now on the beak , Now in the waist , the deck , in every cabin , I flamed amazement . Sometime I 'd divide , And burn in many places . On the topmast , The yards , and bowsprit would I flame distinctly , Then meet and join . Jove 's lightning , the precursors O ' th ' dreadful thunderclaps , more momentary And sight - outrunning were not . The fire and cracks Of sulfurous roaring the most mighty Neptune Seem to besiege and make his bold waves tremble , Yea , his dread trident shake .
What 's that , I pray ?
Bid her have good heart . She soon shall know of us , by some of ours , How honorable and how kindly we Determine for her , for Caesar cannot live To be ungentle .
What mean you , sir , To give them this discomfort ? Look , they weep , And I , an ass , am onion - eyed . For shame , Transform us not to women .
He has broke my head across and has given Sir Toby a bloody coxcomb too . For the love of God , your help ! I had rather than forty pound I were at home .
My lord , I know not what the matter is , but to my judgment your highness is not entertained with that ceremonious affection as you were wont . There 's a great abatement of kindness appears as well in the general dependants as in the duke himself also , and your daughter .
By my troth , the fool has an excellent breast . I had rather than forty shillings I had such a leg , and so sweet a breath to sing , as the fool has . -- In sooth , thou wast in very gracious fooling last night when thou spokest of Pigrogromitus , of the Vapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus . ' Twas very good , i ' faith . I sent thee sixpence for thy leman . Hadst it ?
Corporal Nym , an thou wilt be friends , be friends ; an thou wilt not , why then be enemies with me too . Prithee , put up .
Of what , lady ? Of speaking honorably ? Is not marriage honorable in a beggar ? Is not your lord honorable without marriage ? I think you would have me say , " Saving your reverence , a husband . " An bad thinking do not wrest true speaking , I 'll offend nobody . Is there any harm in " the heavier for a husband " ? None , I think , an it be the right husband and the right wife . Otherwise , ' tis light and not heavy . Ask my Lady Beatrice else . Here she comes .
A man no mightier than thyself or me In personal action , yet prodigious grown , And fearful as these strange eruptions are .
Will not you ?
Mercy on us ! --We split , we split ! --Farewell , my wife and children ! --Farewell , brother ! --We split , we split , we split !
By Chrish , la , ' tish ill done . The work ish give over . The trompet sound the retreat . By my hand I swear , and my father 's soul , the work ish ill done . It ish give over . I would have blowed up the town , so Chrish save me , la , in an hour . Oh , ' tish ill done , ' tish ill done , by my hand , ' tish ill done .
Why , how now , general ? No more of that .
Come , let us hence , and put on other weeds , And then to Leonato 's we will go .
I know not that , when he knows what I know .
The raven himself is hoarse That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan Under my battlements . Come , you spirits That tend on mortal thoughts , unsex me here , And fill me from the crown to the toe top - full Of direst cruelty . Make thick my blood . Stop up the access and passage to remorse , That no compunctious visitings of nature Shake my fell purpose , nor keep peace between The effect and it ! Come to my woman 's breasts , And take my milk for gall , you murd'ring ministers , Wherever in your sightless substances You wait on nature 's mischief . Come , thick night , And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell , That my keen knife see not the wound it makes , Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark To cry " Hold , hold ! "
O Lord , good my lord captain --
Peace ! Hark further .
Beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself , And yet , thy wealth being forfeit to the state , Thou hast not left the value of a cord . Therefore thou must be hanged at the state 's charge .
Let me see your eyes . Look in my face .
If you bethink yourself of any crime Unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace , Solicit for it straight .
What 's your pleasure , sir ?
" Should be " -- should buzz !
Antonio shall become bound , well .
If thou dost marry , I 'll give thee this plague for thy dowry . Be thou as chaste as ice , as pure as snow , thou shalt not escape calumny . Get thee to a nunnery , go . Farewell . Or , if thou wilt needs marry , marry a fool , for wise men know well enough what monsters you make of them . To a nunnery , go , and quickly too . Farewell .
Mark Antony , here , take you Caesar 's body . You shall not in your funeral speech blame us , But speak all good you can devise of Caesar , And say you do ' t by our permission . Else shall you not have any hand at all About his funeral . And you shall speak In the same pulpit whereto I am going , After my speech is ended .
What shall I say you are ?
Let it come down .
Past the mid season .
These quicksands , Lepidus , Keep off them , for you sink .
Consider it not so deeply .
O , in the duke of Gloucester 's purse .
So did our men , heavy in Hotspur 's loss , Lend to this weight such lightness with their fear That arrows fled not swifter toward their aim Than did our soldiers , aiming at their safety , Fly from the field . Then was the noble Worcester Too soon ta'en prisoner ; and that furious Scot , The bloody Douglas , whose well - laboring sword Had three times slain th'appearance of the King , Gan vail his stomach and did grace the shame Of those that turned their backs and in his flight , Stumbling in fear , was took . The sum of all Is that the King hath won and hath sent out A speedy power to encounter you , my lord , Under the conduct of young Lancaster And Westmoreland . This is the news at full .
If it be aught to the old tune , my lord , It is as fat and fulsome to mine ear As howling after music .
Let 's do so . But he sleeps .
Oh !
Stand , ho ! Speak the word along .
Ay , that he did .
Good Corporal Nym , show thy valor and put up your sword .
O Lord , sir , I am a diseased man .
Dally not with the gods , but get thee gone . -- Signior Baptista , shall I lead the way ? Welcome ! One mess is like to be your cheer . Come , sir , we will better it in Pisa .
Mome , malt - horse , capon , coxcomb , idiot , patch ! Either get thee from the door or sit down at the hatch . Dost thou conjure for wenches , that thou call' st for such store When one is one too many ? Go , get thee from the door .
Bring me no more reports . Let them fly all . Till Birnam Wood remove to Dunsinane I cannot taint with fear . What 's the boy Malcolm ? Was he not born of woman ? The spirits that know All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus : " Fear not , Macbeth . No man that 's born of woman Shall e' er have power upon thee . " Then fly , false thanes , And mingle with the English epicures . The mind I sway by and the heart I bear Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear .
Taurus !
No , no , he 's gone .
Ah , aunt , you wept not for our father 's death . How can we aid you with our kindred tears ?
Why then ' tis hers , my lord , and , being hers , She may , I think , bestow ' t on any man .
Good my lord , put your discourse into some frame and start not so wildly from my affair .
That I have , lady . If it will please Caesar To be so good to Caesar as to hear me , I shall beseech him to befriend himself .
The princess is the better Englishwoman . --I ' faith , Kate , my wooing is fit for thy understanding . I am glad thou canst speak no better English , for if thou couldst , thou wouldst find me such a plain king that thou wouldst think I had sold my farm to buy my crown . I know no ways to mince it in love , but directly to say , " I love you . " Then if you urge me farther than to say , " Do you , in faith ? " I wear out my suit . Give me your answer , i ' faith , do ; and so clap hands and a bargain . How say you , lady ?
Sir !
Casca , by your voice .
Indeed , they are disproportioned . My letters say a hundred and seven galleys .
I can keep honest counsel , ride , run , mar a curious tale in telling it , and deliver a plain message bluntly . That which ordinary men are fit for , I am qualified in . And the best of me is diligence .
Oh , most lame and impotent conclusion ! Do not learn of him , Emilia , though he be thy husband . How say you , Cassio ? Is he not a most profane and liberal counselor ?
Grates me , the sum .
I 'll show thee every fertile inch o ' th ' island . And I will kiss thy foot . I prithee , be my god .
You have been always called a merciful man , partner .
Why , a horse .
Your accent is something finer than you could purchase in so removed a dwelling .
Is " old dog " my reward ? Most true , I have lost my teeth in your service . God be with my old master . He would not have spoke such a word .
Why , that were covetousness . Silvius , the time was that I hated thee , And yet it is not that I bear thee love , But since that thou canst talk of love so well , Thy company , which erst was irksome to me , I will endure , and I 'll employ thee too . But do not look for further recompense Than thine own gladness that thou art employed .
Go , then , for ' tis in vain To seek him here that means not to be found .
Why that 's with watching , ' twill away again . Let me but bind it hard , within this hour It will be well .
She 's dead too , our sovereign .
The tyrant has not battered at their peace ?
Let 's hear it .
Thy loving father , Hamlet .
Let me choose , For as I am , I live upon the rack .
How now , good Cassio , what 's the news with you ?
Come let 's in all .
My lord , here are letters for you .
You do impeach your modesty too much , To leave the city and commit yourself Into the hands of one that loves you not , To trust the opportunity of night And the ill counsel of a desert place With the rich worth of your virginity .
Well , I have done . But yet --
I , madam ?
Here is the cap your Worship did bespeak .
A document in madness . Thoughts and remembrance fitted .
Well , by my will , we shall admit no parley .
Nothing , my lord .
And private in his chamber pens himself , Shuts up his windows , locks fair daylight out , And makes himself an artificial night . Black and portentous must this humor prove Unless good counsel may the cause remove .
I prithee , peace . My soul is full of sorrow .
And stint thou too , I pray thee , Nurse , say I.
The duke 's to blame in this . ' Twill be ill taken .
I wish we may . But yet have I a mind That fears him much , and my misgiving still Falls shrewdly to the purpose .
She 's dead , my Queen .
I think nobly of the soul , and no way approve his opinion .
Here they 'll be , man . Some o ' their plants are ill - rooted already . The least wind i ' th ' world will blow them down .
Good duke , receive thy daughter . Hymen from heaven brought her , Yea , brought her hither , That thou mightst join her hand with his Whose heart within his bosom is .
I would thou wert so happy by thy stay To hear true shrift . --Come , madam , let 's away .
Ay , that they do , my lord . Hercules and his load too .
I warrant you .
No , my chuck . --Eros , come , mine armor , Eros !
Yea , my good lord . How still the evening is , As hushed on purpose to grace harmony !
What , you are as a candle , the better part burnt out .
Hear me a little , For I have only silent been so long , And given way unto this course of fortune , By noting of the lady . I have marked A thousand blushing apparitions To start into her face , a thousand innocent shames In angel whiteness beat away those blushes , And in her eye there hath appeared a fire To burn the errors that these princes hold Against her maiden truth . Call me a fool ,
My Lord Constable , the armor that I saw in your tent tonight , are those stars or suns upon it ?
To fetch her fan , her gloves , her mask , nor nothing ?
To do what , Signior ?
Of all thy suitors here I charge thee tell Whom thou lovest best . See thou dissemble not .
Hang thyself in thine own heir-apparent garters ! If I be ta'en , I 'll peach for this . An I have not ballads made on you all and sung to filthy tunes , let a cup of sack be my poison -- when a jest is so forward , and afoot too ! I hate it .
Your father 's sickness is a maim to us .
You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine enemy .
If thy name be called " Luce , " Luce , thou hast answered him well .
O most unhappy strumpet !
Dear sir , forbear !
Ay , there 's the point . As , to be bold with you , Not to affect many proposed matches Of her own clime , complexion , and degree , Whereto we see in all things nature tends -- Foh ! One may smell in such a will most rank , Foul disproportions , thoughts unnatural . But -- pardon me --I do not in position Distinctly speak of her , though I may fear Her will , recoiling to her better judgment , May fall to match you with her country forms , And happily repent .
O Westmoreland , thou art a summer bird , Which ever in the haunch of winter sings The lifting up of day .
Say 'st thou me so ? Is that a ton of moys?- -Come hither , boy . Ask me this slave in French what is his name .
You will be schoolmaster And undertake the teaching of the maid : That 's your device .
That 's my office .
Whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend .
Nurse , will you go with me into my closet To help me sort such needful ornaments As you think fit to furnish me tomorrow ?
Say , didst thou speak with him ? Know 'st thou his mind ?
The grief hath crazed my wits . What a night 's this ! I do beseech your grace --
Well , I will marry one day , but to try . Here comes your man . Now is your husband nigh .
So do I his .
Gregory , on my word , we 'll not carry coals .
Where is he ?
The skies , the fountains , every region near Seemed all one mutual cry . I never heard So musical a discord , such sweet thunder .
I 'll bring you thither , my lord , if you 'll vouchsafe me .
Pardon , Caesar . Caesar , pardon . As low as to thy foot doth Cassius fall To beg enfranchisement for Publius Cimber .
Jack , meet me tomorrow in the Temple hall At two o'clock in the afternoon ; There shalt thou know thy charge , and there receive Money and order for their furniture . The land is burning . Percy stands on high , And either we or they must lower lie .
Why , see you not ?
The time invites you . Go . Your servants tend .
Yours , if you talk of tales . And so farewell .
Oh , she doth teach the torches to burn bright ! It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope 's ear , Beauty too rich for use , for earth too dear . So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows . The measure done , I 'll watch her place of stand , And , touching hers , make blessed my rude hand . Did my heart love till now ? Forswear it , sight ! For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night .
Indeed , I am no mourner for that news , Because they have been still my adversaries . But that I 'll give my voice on Richard 's side To bar my master 's heirs in true descent , God knows I will not do it , to the death .
To both these sisters have I sworn my love , Each jealous of the other as the stung Are of the adder . Which of them shall I take ? Both ? One ? Or neither ? Neither can be enjoyed If both remain alive . To take the widow Exasperates , makes mad her sister Goneril , And hardly shall I carry out my side , Her husband being alive . Now , then , we 'll use His countenance for the battle , which being done , Let her who would be rid of him devise His speedy taking off . As for the mercy Which he intends to Lear and to Cordelia , The battle done and they within our power , Shall never see his pardon , for my state Stands on me to defend , not to debate .
Now , Signior , what news ?
I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack .
What do you think of me ?
I do not like the Tower , of any place . -- Did Julius Caesar build that place , my lord ?
How now , Captain Macmorris , have you quit the mines ? Have the pioneers given o'er ?
Say you ?
We will be satisfied ! Let us be satisfied !
Ay me , what news ? Why dost thou wring thy hands ?
I 'll see it done .
Think upon Vaughan , and with guilty fear Let fall thy lance . Despair , and die !
Orsino .
I embrace it .
Then , with your will , go on . We 'll along ourselves , and meet them at Philippi .
Oh , help , ho ! Light ! A surgeon !
The spirit torments me . Oh !
This sight would make him do a desperate turn , Yea , curse his better angel from his side And fall to reprobation .
Yes , every man of them , and no man here But honors you , and every one doth wish You had but that opinion of yourself Which every noble Roman bears of you . This is Trebonius .
Have not saints lips , and holy palmers too ?
Home without boots , and in foul weather too ! How 'scapes he agues , in the devil 's name ?
How now , daughter and cousin ? Are you crept hither to see the wrestling ?
We are time 's subjects , and time bids begone .
Zounds , how has he the leisure to be sick In such a justling time ? Who leads his power ? Under whose government come they along ?
No doubt , no doubt ; and so shall Clarence too , For they that were your enemies are his And have prevailed as much on him as you .
I 'll know thy thoughts .
A blessed labor , my most sovereign lord . Amongst this princely heap , if any here By false intelligence , or wrong surmise Hold me a foe , If I unwittingly , or in my rage , Have aught committed that is hardly borne By any in this presence , I desire To reconcile me to his friendly peace . ' Tis death to me to be at enmity ; I hate it , and desire all good men 's love . First , madam , I entreat true peace of you , Which I will purchase with my duteous service ; -- Of you , my noble cousin Buckingham , If ever any grudge were lodged between us ; -- Of you and you , Lord Rivers and of Dorset , That all without desert have frowned on me ; -- Of you , Lord Woodeville and Lord Scales ; -- of you , Dukes , earls , lords , gentlemen ; indeed , of all . I do not know that Englishman alive With whom my soul is any jot at odds More than the infant that is born tonight . I thank my God for my humility .
I will not leave him now till Cassio Be called to him . --How is ' t with you , my lord ?
Nay , look you , sir , he tells you flatly what his mind is . Why , give him gold enough and marry him to a puppet or an aglet-baby , or an old trot with ne'er a tooth in her head , though she have as many diseases as two - and - fifty horses . Why , nothing comes amiss , so money comes withal .
By such despair I should accuse myself .
Let it alone , thou fool . It is but trash .
Petruchio , since we are stepped thus far in , I will continue that I broached in jest . I can , Petruchio , help thee to a wife With wealth enough , and young and beauteous , Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman . Her only fault , and that is faults enough , Is that she is intolerable curst , And shrewd and froward , so beyond all measure That , were my state far worser than it is , I would not wed her for a mine of gold .
I 'll not have it so .
In faith , it is exceedingly well aimed .
The fellow is distract , and so am I , And here we wander in illusions . Some blessed power deliver us from hence !
If I see anything tonight why I should not marry her , tomorrow in the congregation , where I should wed , there will I shame her .
Call you ? What is your will ?
Good , good .
Do not , my lord .
Cheerly , my lord . How fares your Grace ? Sir Nicholas Gawsey hath for succor sent , And so hath Clifton . I 'll to Clifton straight .
This wind you talk of , blows us from ourselves . Supper is done , and we shall come too late .
This day 's black fate on more days doth depend . This but begins the woe others must end .
Oh , yes , I heard them all , and more too , for some of them had in them more feet than the verses would bear .
Bravely the figure of this harpy hast thou Performed , my Ariel . A grace it had , devouring . Of my instruction hast thou nothing bated In what thou hadst to say . --So with good life And observation strange , my meaner ministers Their several kinds have done . My high charms work And these mine enemies are all knit up In their distractions . They now are in my power , And in these fits I leave them while I visit Young Ferdinand , whom they suppose is drowned , And his and mine loved darling .
Pause awhile , And let my counsel sway you in this case . Your daughter here the princes left for dead . Let her awhile be secretly kept in And publish it that she is dead indeed . Maintain a mourning ostentation , And on your family 's old monument Hang mournful epitaphs and do all rites That appertain unto a burial .
Let it be a quarrel between us , if you live .
And what have I to give you back whose worth May counterpoise this rich and precious gift ?
Upon the stroke of four .
I dare make his answer , none .
She is not , madam .
Most noble Empress , you have heard of me ?
Heigh-ho ! An it be not four by the day , I 'll be hanged . Charles 's Wain is over the new chimney , and yet our horse not packed . --What , ostler !
Oh , then I see that madmen have no ears .
Methinks the ground is even .
Now fie upon my false French . By mine honor , in true English , I love thee , Kate . By which honor I dare not swear thou lovest me , yet my blood begins to flatter me that thou dost , notwithstanding the poor and untempering effect of my visage . Now , beshrew my father 's ambition ! He was thinking of civil wars when he got me ; therefore was I created with a stubborn outside , with an aspect of iron , that when I come to woo ladies , I fright them . But , in faith , Kate , the elder I wax , the better I shall appear . My comfort is that old age , that ill layer - up of beauty , can do no more spoil upon my face . Thou hast me , if thou hast me , at the worst , and thou shalt wear me , if thou wear me , better and better . And therefore tell me , most fair Katherine , will you have me ? Put off your maiden blushes , avouch the thoughts of your heart with the looks of an empress , take me by the hand , and say " Harry of England , I am thine , " which word thou shalt no sooner bless mine ear withal , but I will tell
Let him be the devil , an he will , I care not . Give me faith , say I. Well , it 's all one .
Know him ? Ay .
Why Doth it not then our eyelids sink ? I find not Myself disposed to sleep .
Swear !
My lord it shall be done .
The morning comes upon ' s . We 'll leave you , Brutus . --And , friends , disperse yourselves . But all remember What you have said , and show yourselves true Romans .
Then you are a better than the king .
As much as an apple doth an oyster , and all one .
If the English had any apprehension , they would run away .
Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the operation of your sun . So is your crocodile .
Let go , slave , or thou diest !
Hold , take my sword . There 's husbandry in heaven ; Their candles are all out . Take thee that too . A heavy summons lies like lead upon me , And yet I would not sleep . Merciful powers , Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature Gives way to in repose .
I will not desire that .
Didst thou not say he comes ?
Gentlemen both , we will not wake your patience . My heart is sorry for your daughter 's death , But , on my honor , she was charged with nothing But what was true and very full of proof .
Moy shall not serve . I will have forty moys , or I will fetch thy rim out at thy throat in drops of crimson blood .
That I beheld . Mine eyes did sicken at the sight and could not Endure a further view .
And thane of Cawdor too : went it not so ?
Trouble yourselves no further . Pray you , hasten Your generals after .
Glamis , and thane of Cawdor ! The greatest is behind . Thanks for your pains . Do you not hope your children shall be kings , When those that gave the thane of Cawdor to me Promised no less to them ?
Counterfeit , I assure you .
Yet your mistrust cannot make me a traitor . Tell me whereon the likelihood depends .
To cry " Amen " to that , thus we appear .
Under what captain serve you ?
O , by your leave , I pray you , I bade you never speak again of him . But , would you undertake another suit , I had rather hear you to solicit that Than music from the spheres .
Now , my good sweet honey lord , ride with us tomorrow . I have a jest to execute that I cannot manage alone . Falstaff , Peto , Bardolph , and Gadshill shall rob those men that we have already waylaid . Yourself and I will not be there . And when they have the booty , if you and I do not rob them , cut this head off from my shoulders .
It sall be vary gud , gud feith , gud captens bath , and I sall quit you with gud leve , as I may pick occasion , that sall I , marry .
Oh , devil , devil ! If that the earth could teem with woman 's tears , Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile . Out of my sight !
Ay , Hamlet .
No way but gentleness , gently , gently . The fiend is rough and will not be roughly used .
Lights , lights , lights !
Hark , hark ! One knocks . Portia , go in awhile . And by and by thy bosom shall partake The secrets of my heart . All my engagements I will construe to thee , All the charactery of my sad brows . Leave me with haste .
Speak , man .
I may not , madam . My lady charged my duty in this business .
Marked ye his words ? He would not take the crown . Therefore ' tis certain he was not ambitious .
The town sounds a parley .
My lord , I am guiltless , as I am ignorant , Of what hath moved you .
I would think thee a most princely hypocrite .
Why , sir , his hide is so tanned with his trade that he will keep out water a great while , and your water is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body . Here 's a skull now . This skull has lain in the earth three - and - twenty years .
So thrive I as I truly swear the like .
Go with me to it , and I 'll show it you ; and by the way you shall tell me where in the forest you live . Will you go ?
Hearken after their offense , my lord .
I must indeed , and therefore came I hither . Good gentle youth , tempt not a desperate man . Fly hence and leave me . Think upon these gone . Let them affright thee . I beseech thee , youth , Put not another sin upon my head By urging me to fury . O , be gone ! By heaven , I love thee better than myself , For I come hither armed against myself . Stay not , be gone . Live , and hereafter say A madman 's mercy bid thee run away .
He 's fat , and scant of breath . -- Here , Hamlet , take my napkin , rub thy brows . The queen carouses to thy fortune , Hamlet .
I think to steal cream indeed , for thy theft hath already made thee butter . But tell me , Jack , whose fellows are these that come after ?
" Katherine the curst ! " A title for a maid of all titles the worst .
Gallus , go you along .
Look he 's winding up the watch of his wit . By and by it will strike .
Get thee to a nunnery . Why wouldst thou be a breeder of sinners ? I am myself indifferent honest , but yet I could accuse me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me .
An you love me , let 's do ' t . I am dog at a catch .
Hoyday , a riddle ! Neither good nor bad . What need 'st thou run so many mile about When thou mayst tell thy tale the nearest way ? Once more , what news ?
Who struck this heat up after I was gone ?
Alack , sir , you cannot see your way .
No , by this hand .
The thieves have bound the true men . Now could thou and I rob the thieves and go merrily to London , it would be argument for a week , laughter for a month , and a good jest forever .
Mistake me not . I speak but as I find . Whence are you , sir ? What may I call your name ?
Wilt thou make a trust a transgression ? The transgression is in the stealer .
Brown , madam , and her forehead As low as she would wish it .
I told him gently of our grievances , Of his oath - breaking , which he mended thus By now forswearing that he is forsworn . He calls us " rebels , " " traitors , " and will scourge With haughty arms this hateful name in us .
Even as a flatt'ring dream or worthless fancy . Then take him up and manage well the jest . Carry him gently to my fairest chamber And hang it round with all my wanton pictures . Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet . Procure me music ready when he wakes , To make a dulcet and a heavenly sound . And if he chance to speak , be ready straight And with a low submissive reverence Say , " What is it your Honor will command ? " Let one attend him with a silver basin Full of rose - water and bestrewed with flowers , Another bear the ewer , the third a diaper , And say , " Will ' t please your Lordship cool your hands ? " Someone be ready with a costly suit And ask him what apparel he will wear . Another tell him of his hounds and horse , And that his lady mourns at his disease . Persuade him that he hath been lunatic , And when he says he is , say that he dreams , For he is nothing but a mighty lord . This do , and do it kindly , gentle sirs . It will be pastime passing excellent If it be husbanded with modesty .
I do not well know , my lord . If it shall please you to suspend your indignation against my brother till you can derive from him better testimony of his intent , you shall run a certain course -- where if you violently proceed against him , mistaking his purpose , it would make a great gap in your own honor and shake in pieces the heart of his obedience . I dare pawn down my life for him that he hath wrote this to feel my affection to your honor and to no other pretense of danger .
Well , sit we down , And let us hear Barnardo speak of this .
Are you wise ?
Still on my daughter .
Cannot you tell that ? Every fool can tell that . It was the very day that young Hamlet was born , he that is mad and sent into England .
But in your daughter 's womb I bury them , Where , in that nest of spicery , they will breed Selves of themselves , to your recomforture .
A whole one , I. For thou dost know , O Damon dear , This realm dismantled was Of Jove himself . And now reigns here A very , very -- pajock .
Oh , I am slain !
Follow me . Speak not you for him . He 's a traitor . Come , I 'll manacle thy neck and feet together . Seawater shalt thou drink . Thy food shall be The fresh - brook mussles , withered roots , and husks Wherein the acorn cradled . Follow .
What 's the matter , sir ?
I will , my lord .
Where should I lose that handkerchief , Emilia ?
By ' r lady , sir , and some dogs will catch well .
Art thou so hasty ? I have stayed for thee , God knows , in torment and in agony .
These deeds must not be thought After these ways . So , it will make us mad .
Sir John Falstaff .
Sweets to the sweet . Farewell ! I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet 's wife . I thought thy bride - bed to have decked , sweet maid , And not have strewed thy grave .
Confirmed , confirmed ! Oh , that is stronger made Which was before barred up with ribs of iron ! Would the two princes lie and Claudio lie , Who loved her so that , speaking of her foulness , Washed it with tears ? Hence from her . Let her die .
Nut - hook , nut - hook , you lie ! Come on , I ' ll tell thee what , thou damned tripe - visaged rascal : an the child I now go with do miscarry , thou wert better thou hadst struck thy mother , thou paper - faced villain .
Fie , there is no such man . It is impossible .
To you , my noble Lord of Westmoreland .
I fear thou art another counterfeit , And yet , in faith , thou bear 'st thee like a king . But mine I am sure thou art , whoe'er thou be , And thus I win thee .
That 's my good son . But where hast thou been , then ?
All things that we ordained festival Turn from their office to black funeral . Our instruments to melancholy bells , Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast . Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change , Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse , And all things change them to the contrary .
Never , my lord .
I love thee not , therefore pursue me not . Where is Lysander and fair Hermia ? The one I 'll stay , the other stayeth me . Thou told 'st me they were stol'n unto this wood . And here am I , and wood within this wood , Because I cannot meet my Hermia . Hence , get thee gone , and follow me no more .
My lord , fair Helen told me of their stealth , Of this their purpose hither to this wood . And I in fury hither followed them , Fair Helena in fancy following me .
How say you by the French lord , Monsieur le Bon ?
Content , in faith . I 'll seal to such a bond , And say there is much kindness in the Jew .
And Trinculo is reeling ripe . Where should they Find this grand liquor that hath gilded ' em?- - How camest thou in this pickle ?
I cannot tell . Those that do teach young babes Do it with gentle means and easy tasks . He might have chid me so , for , in good faith , I am a child to chiding .
If our eyes had authority , here they might take two thieves kissing .
Well , do your discretion .
Of her society Be not afraid . I met her deity Cutting the clouds towards Paphos , and her son Dove - drawn with her . Here thought they to have done Some wanton charm upon this man and maid , Whose vows are that no bed - right shall be paid Till Hymen 's torch be lighted -- but in vain . Mars 's hot minion is returned again . Her waspish - headed son has broke his arrows , Swears he will shoot no more , but play with sparrows And be a boy right out .
But , Othello , speak . Did you by indirect and forced courses Subdue and poison this young maid 's affections ? Or came it by request and such fair question As soul to soul affordeth ?
I warrant it is to knight you , Captain .
Faith , I must leave thee , love , and shortly too . My operant powers their functions leave to do . And thou shalt live in this fair world behind , Honored , beloved , and haply one as kind For husband shalt thou --
Sir , Octavius is already come to Rome .
What should I do I do not ?
Your betters , sir .
This will I tell my lady straight . I would not be in some of your coats for two pence .
Hence , away ! Now all is well . One aloof stand sentinel .
Shall Caesar send a lie ? Have I in conquest stretched mine arm so far To be afraid to tell graybeards the truth ?
Ask her forgiveness ? Do you but mark how this becomes the house?- - " Dear daughter , I confess that I am old . Age is unnecessary . On my knees I beg That you 'll vouchsafe me raiment , bed , and food . "
A trade , sir , that I hope I may use with a safe conscience , which is , indeed , sir , a mender of bad soles .
Money by me ! heart and goodwill you might , But surely , master , not a rag of money .
First pardon me , my lord . A hue and cry Hath followed certain men unto this house .
Why , that will I.
Thou dost thy office fairly . Turn thee back , And tell thy king I do not seek him now But could be willing to march on to Calais Without impeachment , for , to say the sooth , Though ' tis no wisdom to confess so much Unto an enemy of craft and vantage , My people are with sickness much enfeebled , My numbers lessened , and those few I have Almost no better than so many French , Who when they were in health , I tell thee , herald , I thought upon one pair of English legs Did march three Frenchmen . Yet , forgive me , God , That I do brag thus . This your air of France Hath blown that vice in me . I must repent . Go therefore , tell thy master : here I am . My ransom is this frail and worthless trunk , My army but a weak and sickly guard , Yet , God before , tell him we will come on Though France himself and such another neighbor Stand in our way . There 's for thy labor , Montjoy . Go bid thy master well advise himself : If we may pass , we will ; if we be hindered , We shall your tawny ground with your red blood Discolor . And so , Montjoy , fare you well . The sum of all our answer is but this : We would not seek a battle as we are , Nor , as we are , we say we will not shun it . So tell your master .
Ay , master .
Until tomorrow morning , lords , farewell .
For this I shall have time enough to mourn . In poison there is physic , and these news , Having been well , that would have made me sick , Being sick , have in some measure made me well . And as the wretch whose fever - weakened joints , Like strengthless hinges , buckle under life , Impatient of his fit , breaks like a fire Out of his keeper 's arms , even so my limbs , Weakened with grief , being now enraged with grief , Are thrice themselves . Hence therefore , thou nice crutch . A scaly gauntlet now with joints of steel Must glove this hand . And hence , thou sickly coif . Thou art a guard too wanton for the head Which princes , fleshed with conquest , aim to hit . Now bind my brows with iron , and approach The ragged 'st hour that time and spite dare bring To frown upon th'enraged Northumberland . Let heaven kiss earth ! Now let not Nature 's hand Keep the wild flood confined . Let order die , And let this world no longer be a stage
Ay , but I fear you speak upon the rack Where men enforced do speak anything .
Things have fall'n out , sir , so unluckily , That we have had no time to move our daughter . Look you , she loved her kinsman Tybalt dearly , And so did I. Well , we were born to die . ' Tis very late . She 'll not come down tonight . I promise you , but for your company , I would have been abed an hour ago .
Away ! You are an ass , you are an ass !
Alas , how is ' t with you , That you do bend your eye on vacancy And with th ' incorporal air do hold discourse ? Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep , And , as the sleeping soldiers in th ' alarm , Your bedded hair , like life in excrements , Starts up and stands on end . O gentle son , Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper Sprinkle cool patience . Whereon do you look ?
What else , fellow ?
O Hamlet , speak no more ! Thou turn 'st mine eyes into my very soul , And there I see such black and grained spots As will not leave their tinct .
Though our silence be drawn from us with cars , yet peace .
And for that offence Immediately we do exile him hence . I have an interest in your hearts ' proceeding . My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a - bleeding . But I 'll amerce you with so strong a fine That you shall all repent the loss of mine . I will be deaf to pleading and excuses . Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses , Therefore use none . Let Romeo hence in haste , Else , when he 's found , that hour is his last . Bear hence this body and attend our will . Mercy but murders , pardoning those that kill .
Good Hermia , do not be so bitter with me . I evermore did love you , Hermia , Did ever keep your counsels , never wronged you -- Save that , in love unto Demetrius , I told him of your stealth unto this wood . He followed you . For love I followed him . But he hath chid me hence and threatened me To strike me , spurn me -- nay , to kill me too . And now , so you will let me quiet go , To Athens will I bear my folly back And follow you no further . Let me go . You see how simple and how fond I am .
They are coming to the play . I must be idle . Get you a place .
Well , again .
I shall not dine at home , I meet the captains at the citadel .
I pray you , hear her speak . If she confess that she was half the wooer , Destruction on my head if my bad blame Light on the man . --Come hither , gentle mistress . Do you perceive in all this noble company Where most you owe obedience ?
Hear me , Queen : The strong necessity of time commands Our services awhile , but my full heart Remains in use with you . Our Italy Shines o'er with civil swords . Sextus Pompeius Makes his approaches to the port of Rome . Equality of two domestic powers Breed scrupulous faction . The hated , grown to strength , Are newly grown to love . The condemned Pompey , Rich in his father 's honor , creeps apace Into the hearts of such as have not thrived Upon the present state , whose numbers threaten ; And quietness , grown sick of rest , would purge By any desperate change . My more particular , And that which most with you should safe my going , Is Fulvia 's death .
Here comes Lorenzo . More of this hereafter .
Nor none , in my mind , now you give her o'er .
Pray , then , foresee me one .
His grace says that which his flesh rebels against .
Your Caesar 's father oft , When he hath mused of taking kingdoms in , Bestowed his lips on that unworthy place As it rained kisses .
Farewell to you . --And you . --And you , Volumnius . --Strato , thou hast been all this while asleep . Farewell to thee too , Strato . --Countrymen , My heart doth joy that yet in all my life I found no man but he was true to me . I shall have glory by this losing day More than Octavius and Mark Antony By this vile conquest shall attain unto . So fare you well at once , for Brutus ' tongue Hath almost ended his life 's history . Night hangs upon mine eyes . My bones would rest , That have but labored to attain this hour .
Liar and slave !
Fear him not , Caesar . He 's not dangerous . He is a noble Roman and well given .
Thou art a lord , and nothing but a lord . Thou hast a lady far more beautiful Than any woman in this waning age .
I was with Hercules and Cadmus once , When in a wood of Crete they bayed the bear With hounds of Sparta . Never did I hear Such gallant chiding . For , besides the groves ,
Tomorrow , my lord . Time goes on crutches till love have all his rites .
Oh , wretched villain !
I shall entreat him To answer like himself . If Caesar move him , Let Antony look over Caesar 's head And speak as loud as Mars . By Jupiter , Were I the wearer of Antonio 's beard , I would not shave ' t today .
That " may be " must be , love , on Thursday next .
Then are we all undone . It is not possible , it cannot be The King should keep his word in loving us . He will suspect us still and find a time To punish this offense in other faults . Suspicion all our lives shall be stuck full of eyes , For treason is but trusted like the fox , Who , never so tame , so cherished and locked up , Will have a wild trick of his ancestors . Look how we can , or sad or merrily , Interpretation will misquote our looks , And we shall feed like oxen at a stall , The better cherished still the nearer death . My nephew 's trespass may be well forgot ; It hath the excuse of youth and heat of blood , And an adopted name of privilege -- A hairbrained Hotspur governed by a spleen : All his offenses live upon my head And on his father 's . We did train him on , And , his corruption being ta'en from us , We as the spring of all shall pay for all . Therefore , good cousin , let not Harry know In any case the offer of the King .
Why , sweet Othello --
And when goes hence ?
One turf shall serve as pillow for us both . One heart , one bed , two bosoms , and one troth .
I pray you bear with me . I cannot go no further .
I am paid for ' t now . Lead me from hence . I faint . O Iras , Charmian ! ' Tis no matter . -- Go to the fellow , good Alexas . Bid him Report the feature of Octavia : her years , Her inclination . Let him not leave out The color of her hair . Bring me word quickly .
Marry , heaven forbid ! Light , gentlemen , I 'll bind it with my shirt .
All our service , In every point twice done and then done double , Were poor and single business to contend Against those honors deep and broad wherewith Your majesty loads our house . For those of old , And the late dignities heaped up to them , We rest your hermits .
" This fail you not to do , as you will -- "
' Twere as good a deed as to drink when a man 's a - hungry , to challenge him the field and then to break promise with him and make a fool of him .
I must needs after him , madam , with my letter .
Cambio is changed into Lucentio .
Here 's the smell of the blood still . All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand . Oh , Oh , Oh !
Trinculo , keep a good tongue in your head . If you prove a mutineer , the next tree . The poor monster 's my subject and he shall not suffer indignity .
Prick him .
All blessed secrets , All you unpublished virtues of the earth , Spring with my tears . Be aidant and remediate In the good man 's distress . Seek , seek for him , Lest his ungoverned rage dissolve the life That wants the means to lead it .
Nay , that 's not your way .
Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness .
No , do not . For confirmation that I am much more Than my outwall , open this purse and take What it contains . If you shall see Cordelia -- As fear not but you shall -- show her this ring . And she will tell you who that fellow is That yet you do not know . Fie on this storm ! I will go seek the king .
Marry , that should you if I were your mistress , or I should think my honesty ranker than my wit .
Yet here 's a spot .
Which he , sir ?
For the most part , too , they are foolish that are so . Her hair , what color ?
As are companions noted and most known To youth and liberty .
You are very sensible , and yet you miss my sense : I mean , Hortensio is afeard of you .
Here is the will , and under Caesar 's seal To every Roman citizen he gives -- To every several man -- seventy - five drachmas .
I noted her not , but I looked on her .
I thank you , gentle uncle . O , my lord , You said that idle weeds are fast in growth . The prince my brother hath outgrown me far .
I pray you , sir , what saucy merchant was this that was so full of his ropery ?
It appears by his small light of discretion , that he is in the wane . But yet , in courtesy , in all reason , we must stay the time .
I 'll warrant you . Fear me not . Withdraw , I hear him coming .
And they have conspired together . I will not say you shall see a masque , but if you do then it was not for nothing that my nose fell a - bleeding on Black Monday last at six o'clock i ' th ' morning falling out that year on Ash Wednesday was four year in th ' afternoon .
No , unpin me here . This Lodovico is a proper man .
What , to perverseness ? You , uncivil lady , To whose ingrate and unauspicious altars My soul the faithfull 'st off'rings have breathed out That e' er devotion tendered -- what shall I do ?
What 's your name ?
This shows you are above , You justicers , that these our nether crimes So speedily can venge ! But oh , poor Gloucester -- Lost he his other eye ?
Nay , good my lord , this courtesy is not of the right breed . If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer , I will do your mother 's commandment . If not , your pardon and my return shall be the end of my business .
His better doth not breathe upon the earth .
You know my father hath no child but I , nor none is like to have , and , truly , when he dies , thou shalt be his heir , for what he hath taken away from thy father perforce , I will render thee again in affection . By mine honor I will , and when I break that oath , let me turn monster . Therefore , my sweet Rose , my dear Rose , be merry .
What sum owes he the Jew ?
Thou told 'st me Thou didst hold him in thy hate .
Sir , give him head ; I know he 'll prove a jade .
' Fore God , his grace is bold to trust these traitors .
Filth , thou liest !
Ay , or drinking , fencing , swearing , Quarreling , drabbing -- you may go so far .
When we withdrew , my liege , we left it here .
Unto our brother France and to our sister , Health and fair time of day . --Joy and good wishes To our most fair and princely cousin Katherine . -- And , as a branch and member of this royalty , By whom this great assembly is contrived , We do salute you , Duke of Burgundy . -- And princes French , and peers , health to you all . Peace to this meeting wherefore we are met .
Ay , that I will . And I 'll be wise hereafter And seek for grace . What a thrice - double ass Was I , to take this drunkard for a god And worship this dull fool !
I know not how to pray your patience , Yet I must speak . Choose your revenge yourself . Impose me to what penance your invention Can lay upon my sin . Yet sinned I not But in mistaking .
Speak within door .
My lord , prepare . The King comes on apace .
Fetch forth the stocks , ho ! -- You stubborn ancient knave , you reverend braggart , We 'll teach you .
' Tis his own blame . Hath put himself from rest , And must needs taste his folly .
This it is : ' Tis better that the enemy seek us . So shall he waste his means , weary his soldiers , Doing himself offense , whilst we , lying still , Are full of rest , defense , and nimbleness .
A joint stool .
Very strangely , they say .
Nor shall it , Harry , for the hour is come To end the one of us , and would to God Thy name in arms were now as great as mine .
Nay , pray you , seek no color for your going , But bid farewell and go . When you sued staying , Then was the time for words . No going then ! Eternity was in our lips and eyes , Bliss in our brows ' bent , none our parts so poor But was a race of heaven . They are so still , Or thou , the greatest soldier of the world , Art turned the greatest liar .
Here 's France and Burgundy , my noble lord .
Shadow , whose son art thou ?
Very well .
Have you any commission from your lord to negotiate with my face ? You are now out of your text . But we will draw the curtain and show you the picture . Look you , sir , such a one I was this present . Is ' t not well done ?
Our purposes God justly hath discovered , And I repent my fault more than my death , Which I beseech Your Highness to forgive , Although my body pay the price of it .
Pray you , let 's have no more fooling about it , but give me your blessing . I am Launcelot , your boy that was , your son that is , your child that shall be .
I cannot , nor I will not hold me still ; My tongue , though not my heart , shall have his will . He is deformed , crooked , old , and sere , Ill - faced , worse - bodied , shapeless everywhere , Vicious , ungentle , foolish , blunt , unkind , Stigmatical in making , worse in mind .
I think it is in Macedon where Alexander is porn . I tell you , Captain , if you look in the maps of the ' orld , I warrant you shall find , in the comparisons between Macedon and Monmouth , that the situations , look you , is both alike .
Jove , Jove , this shepherd 's passion Is much upon my fashion .
Thus do the hopes we have in him touch ground And dash themselves to pieces .
You may have very fit occasion for ' t . He is now in some commerce with my lady and will by and by depart .
Who of my people hold him in delay ?
Knock , sir ? Whom should I knock ? Is there any man has rebused your Worship ?
And smelt so ? Pah !
Yea , the same .
Pardon , pardon !
Why , man , he 's a very devil . I have not seen such a firago . I had a pass with him , rapier , scabbard , and all , and he gives me the stuck - in with such a mortal motion , that it is inevitable . And on the answer , he pays you as surely as your feet hit the ground they step on . They say he has been fencer to the Sophy .
The kinder we , to give them thanks for nothing . Our sport shall be to take what they mistake . And what poor duty cannot do , noble respect Takes it in might , not merit . Where I have come , great clerks have purposed To greet me with premeditated welcomes , Where I have seen them shiver and look pale , Make periods in the midst of sentences , Throttle their practiced accent in their fears , And in conclusion dumbly have broke off , Not paying me a welcome . Trust me , sweet , Out of this silence yet I picked a welcome , And in the modesty of fearful duty I read as much as from the rattling tongue Of saucy and audacious eloquence . Love , therefore , and tongue-tied simplicity In least speak most , to my capacity .
That defense thou hast , betake thee to ' t . Of what nature the wrongs are thou hast done him , I know not , but thy intercepter , full of despite , bloody as the hunter , attends thee at the orchard end . Dismount thy tuck , be yare in thy preparation , for thy assailant is quick , skillful and deadly .
Let me sit heavy in thy soul tomorrow , I , that was washed to death with fulsome wine , Poor Clarence , by thy guile betrayed to death . Tomorrow in the battle think on me , And fall thy edgeless sword . Despair , and die ! Thou offspring of the house of Lancaster , The wronged heirs of York do pray for thee Good angels guard thy battle . Live and flourish .
Truly , sir , and pleasure will be paid , one time or another .
Accost , Sir Andrew , accost .
I prithee , Remember I have done thee worthy service , Told thee no lies , made thee no mistakings , served Without or grudge or grumblings . Thou didst promise To bate me a full year .
Beware the ides of March .
My mistress with a monster is in love . Near to her close and consecrated bower , While she was in her dull and sleeping hour , A crew of patches , rude mechanicals That work for bread upon Athenian stalls , Were met together to rehearse a play Intended for great Theseus ' nuptial day . The shallowest thick - skin of that barren sort , Who Pyramus presented in their sport , Forsook his scene and entered in a brake , When I did him at this advantage take , An ass 's nole I fixed on his head . Anon his Thisbe must be answered , And forth my mimic comes . When they him spy , As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye , Or russet - pated choughs , many in sort , Rising and cawing at the gun 's report , Sever themselves and madly sweep the sky -- So at his sight away his fellows fly ; And , at our stamp , here o'er and o'er one falls .
Ratcliffe , come hither . Post to Salisbury . When thou com 'st thither -- Dull , unmindful villain , Why stay 'st thou here and go 'st not to the duke ?
Most heathenish and most gross !
I had rather hear Lady , my brach , howl in Irish .
Mock not , Enobarbus . I tell you true . Best you safed the bringer Out of the host . I must attend mine office , Or would have done ' t myself . Your Emperor Continues still a Jove .
Welcome , lady .
So you thought him . And took his voice who should be pricked to die In our black sentence and proscription .
And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is done ! Answer , clerk .
Mark his condition and the event . Then tell me If this might be a brother .
But now the duke of Buckingham and I Are come from visiting his majesty .
Thou fond mad man , hear me a little speak .
Catesby , o'erlook the walls .
Kill men i ' th ' dark ! Where be these bloody thieves ? How silent is this town ! --Ho! murder ! murder ! -- What may you be ? Are you of good or evil ?
My lord , there needs no such apology . I do beseech your Grace pardon me , Who , earnest in the service of my God , Deferred the visitation of my friends . But , leaving this , what is your Grace 's pleasure ?
' Tis called the evil . A most miraculous work in this good king , Which often since my here - remain in England I have seen him do . How he solicits heaven , Himself best knows , but strangely visited people , All swoll'n and ulcerous , pitiful to the eye , The mere despair of surgery , he cures , Hanging a golden stamp about their necks , Put on with holy prayers . And , ' tis spoken ,
Nay , this was but his dream .
Come , swear it , damn thyself . Lest , being like one of heaven , the devils themselves Should fear to seize thee . Therefore be double damned , Swear thou art honest !
I shall devise something . But I pray you commend my counterfeiting to him . Will you go ?
Well , Juliet , I will lie with thee tonight . Let 's see for means . O mischief , thou art swift To enter in the thoughts of desperate men ! I do remember an apothecary -- And hereabouts he dwells -- which late I noted In tattered weeds , with overwhelming brows , Culling of simples . Meager were his looks , Sharp misery had worn him to the bones , And in his needy shop a tortoise hung , An alligator stuffed , and other skins Of ill - shaped fishes ; and about his shelves A beggarly account of empty boxes , Green earthen pots , bladders and musty seeds , Remnants of packthread and old cakes of roses , Were thinly scattered to make up a show .
He hath done good service , lady , in these wars .
I durst , my lord , to wager she is honest , Lay down my soul at stake . If you think other Remove your thought , it doth abuse your bosom . If any wretch have put this in your head Let heaven requite it with the serpent 's curse For if she be not honest , chaste , and true There 's no man happy . The purest of their wives Is foul as slander .
Grant that , and then is death a benefit . So are we Caesar 's friends , that have abridged His time of fearing death . Stoop , Romans , stoop , And let us bathe our hands in Caesar 's blood Up to the elbows , and besmear our swords . Then walk we forth , even to the marketplace , And waving our red weapons o'er our heads Let 's all cry , " Peace , freedom , and liberty ! "
What , with my tongue in your tail ? Nay , come again , Good Kate . I am a gentleman .
Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark .
Hamlet , Hamlet !
Oh , kiss me through the hole of this vile wall !
Sooth , but you must . Say that some lady , as perhaps there is , Hath for your love a great a pang of heart As you have for Olivia . You cannot love her . You tell her so . Must she not then be answered ?
Ay , madam , but returns again tonight .
Do not you love me ?
Right joyous are we to behold your face , Most worthy brother England . Fairly met . --So are you , princes English , every one .
Nothing but death shall stay me .
Ay , boy , ready .
Do thou amend thy face , and I 'll amend my life . Thou art our admiral , thou bearest the lantern in the poop , but ' tis in the nose of thee . Thou art the knight of the burning lamp .
What a coil is there , Dromio ! Who are those at the gate ?
Who gives any thing to Poor Tom , whom the foul fiend hath led through fire and through flame , through ford and whirlipool , o'er bog and quagmire ; that hath laid knives under his pillow and halters in his pew , set ratsbane by his porridge , made him proud of heart to ride on a bay trotting - horse over four - inched bridges to course his own shadow for a traitor ? Bless thy five wits . Tom 's a - cold . Oh , do - de , do - de , do - de . Bless thee from whirlwinds , star - blasting , and taking ! Do Poor Tom some charity , whom the foul fiend vexes . There could I have him now -- and there -- and there again -- and there .
Fore God , you have here a goodly dwelling and a rich .
Sure , sure , such carping is not commendable .
Our sister 's man is certainly miscarried .
Think you so ?
A lord to a lord , a man to a man , stuffed with all honorable virtues .
And mine shall . Hast thou , which art but air , a touch , a feeling Of their afflictions , and shall not myself , One of their kind , that relish all as sharply Passion as they , be kindlier moved than thou art ? Though with their high wrongs I am struck to th ' quick , Yet with my nobler reason ' gainst my fury Do I take part . The rarer action is In virtue than in vengeance . They being penitent , The sole drift of my purpose doth extend Not a frown further . Go release them , Ariel . My charms I 'll break , their senses I 'll restore , And they shall be themselves .
O Cassius , I am sick of many griefs .
We will rather sleep than talk . We know what belongs to a watch .
Which way ran he that killed Mercutio ? Tybalt , that murderer , which way ran he ?
Mistress , you must come away to your father .
Have with you .
Then there is the County Palatine .
Hear him but reason in divinity And , all - admiring , with an inward wish , You would desire the King were made a prelate . Hear him debate of commonwealth affairs , You would say it hath been all in all his study . List his discourse of war , and you shall hear A fearful battle rendered you in music . Turn him to any cause of policy , The Gordian knot of it he will unloose Familiar as his garter ; that , when he speaks , The air , a chartered libertine , is still , And the mute wonder lurketh in men 's ears To steal his sweet and honeyed sentences ; So that the art and practic part of life Must be the mistress to this theoric ; Which is a wonder how his Grace should glean it , Since his addiction was to courses vain , His companies unlettered , rude , and shallow , His hours filled up with riots , banquets , sports , And never noted in him any study , Any retirement , any sequestration From open haunts and popularity .
I 'll graft it with you , and then I shall graft it with a medlar . Then it will be the earliest fruit i ' th ' country , for you 'll be rotten ere you be half ripe , and that 's the right virtue of the medlar .
Nay , yet there 's more in this . I prithee speak to me as to thy thinkings , As thou dost ruminate , and give thy worst of thoughts The worst of words .
Drink thou . Increase the reels .
--But , mistress , know yourself . Down on your knees And thank heaven , fasting , for a good man 's love , For I must tell you friendly in your ear , Sell when you can ; you are not for all markets . Cry the man mercy , love him , take his offer . Foul is most foul , being foul to be a scoffer . --So take her to thee , shepherd . Fare you well .
Who is ' t that calls ? Is it my lady mother ? Is she not down so late or up so early ? What unaccustomed cause procures her hither ?
Well , my good fellows , wait on me tonight . Scant not my cups , and make as much of me As when mine empire was your fellow too , And suffered my command .
Have you not set mine honor at the stake , And baited it with all the unmuzzled thoughts That tyrannous heart can think ? To one of your receiving Enough is shown . A cypress , not a bosom , Hides my heart . So , let me hear you speak .
Ratcliffe , my lord , ' tis I. The early village cock Hath twice done salutation to the morn . Your friends are up and buckle on their armor .
My heart is with your liking .
Come , sir , what letters had you late from France ?
Did Michael Cassio , when you wooed my lady , Know of your love ?
The more I hate , the more he follows me .
Drink some wine ere you go . Fare you well .
Fall and cease .
Eat it up all , Hortensio , if thou lovest me . -- Much good do it unto thy gentle heart . Kate , eat apace . And now , my honey love , Will we return unto thy father 's house And revel it as bravely as the best , With silken coats and caps and golden rings , With ruffs and cuffs and farthingales and things , With scarves and fans and double change of brav'ry , With amber bracelets , beads , and all this knav'ry . What , hast thou dined ? The tailor stays thy leisure To deck thy body with his ruffling treasure .
Master , master , look about you . Who goes there , ha ?
How absolute the knave is ! We must speak by the card , or equivocation will undo us . By the Lord , Horatio , these three years I have taken a note of it . The age is grown so picked that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls his kibe . --How long hast thou been a grave - maker ?
These tedious old fools !
Iago , look with care about the town And silence those whom this vile brawl distracted . -- Come , Desdemona , ' tis the soldiers ' life To have their balmy slumbers waked with strife .
O blessed , blessed night ! I am afeard , Being in night , all this is but a dream , Too flattering sweet to be substantial .
Is the duke of Exeter safe ?
He shall answer it . Some pigeons , Davy , a couple of short - legged hens , a joint of mutton , and any pretty little tiny kickshaws , tell William cook .
Madam , my instrument 's in tune .
How now , blown Jack ? How now , quilt ?
She is not well . Convey her to my tent .
Qualtitie calmie custure me . Art thou a gentleman ? What is thy name ? Discuss .
My countrymen --
Yes , Cassius . And from henceforth When you are over-earnest with your Brutus , He 'll think your mother chides and leave you so .
A thousand times the worse to want thy light . Love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books , But love from love , toward school with heavy looks .
How now , how now , mad wag ? What , in thy quips and thy quiddities ? What a plague have I to do with a buff jerkin ?
Nell , sir , but her name and three quarters -- that 's an ell and three quarters -- will not measure her from hip to hip .
God give him joy !
A good lenten answer . I can tell thee where that saying was born , of " I fear no colors . "
Who 's that which rings the bell?- -Diablo , ho ! The town will rise . Fie , Fie , lieutenant , You 'll be ashamed for ever .
What is " t o " clock ?
Keep peace , upon your lives . He dies that strikes again . What is the matter ?
That lord that counseled thee To give away thy land , Come place him here by me . Do thou for him stand . The sweet and bitter fool Will presently appear -- The one in motley here , The other found out there .
The old proverb is very well parted between my master Shylock and you , sir -- you have " the grace of God , " sir , and he hath " enough . "
There 's wood enough within .
How now , Dame Partlet the hen , have you enquired yet who picked my pocket ?
Away , old man . Give me thy hand . Away ! King Lear hath lost , he and his daughter ta'en . Give me thy hand . Come on .
Where is Duncan 's body ?
Well , let that rest . Dorset is fled to Richmond .
Confine ? I 'll confine myself no finer than I am . These clothes are good enough to drink in , and so be these boots too . An they be not , let them hang themselves in their own straps .
I shall observe him with all care and love .
Why , how now , monsieur ? What a life is this That your poor friends must woo your company ? What , you look merrily .
The mercy that was quick in us but late By your own counsel is suppressed and killed . You must not dare , for shame , to talk of mercy , For your own reasons turn into your bosoms , As dogs upon their masters , worrying you . --See you , my princes and my noble peers , These English monsters . My Lord of Cambridge here , You know how apt our love was to accord To furnish him with all appurtenants Belonging to his honor , and this man Hath , for a few light crowns , lightly conspired , And sworn unto the practices of France , To kill us here in Hampton ; to the which This knight , no less for bounty bound to us Than Cambridge is , hath likewise sworn . --But Oh , What shall I say to thee , Lord Scroop , thou cruel , Ingrateful , savage , and inhuman creature ? Thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels , That knew 'st the very bottom of my soul , That almost mightst have coined me into gold , Wouldst thou have practiced on me for thy use -- May it be possible that foreign hire Could out of thee extract one spark of evil That might annoy my finger ? ' Tis so strange That , though the truth of it stands off as gross As black and white , my eye will scarcely see it . Treason and murder ever kept together As two yoke - devils sworn to either 's purpose , Working so grossly in a natural cause That admiration did not whoop at them .
Bow - wow .
What will you do , now my necessity Makes me to ask you for my purse ? It grieves me Much more for what I cannot do for you Than what befalls myself . You stand amazed , But be of comfort .
Is not this well ? Come , my sweet Kate . Better once than never , for never too late .
O brother Montague , give me thy hand . This is my daughter 's jointure , for no more Can I demand .
When shall we come to th ' top of that same hill ?
Let them alone awhile , and then open the door .
She will find him by starlight . Here she comes , and her passion ends the play .
Look to her , Moor , if thou hast eyes to see . She has deceived her father , and may thee .
By and by , I come . -- To cease thy strife and leave me to my grief . Tomorrow will I send .
From our brother England ?
O , peace ! Contemplation makes a rare turkey - cock of him . How he jets under his advanced plumes !
Nor for my manhood , honesty , and wisdom To let you know my thoughts .
Self - harming jealousy , fie , beat it hence .
Fire and brimstone !
Naked in bed , Iago , and not mean harm ! It is hypocrisy against the devil . They that mean virtuously , and yet do so , The devil their virtue tempts , and they tempt heaven .
Why , the night gone by .
I say my prayers aloud .
We shall have a rare letter from him : but you 'll not deliver ' t ?
This will prove a brave kingdom to me , where I shall have my music for nothing .
If you affect him , sister , here I swear I 'll plead for you myself , but you shall have him .
Come , where be these gallants ? Who 's at home ?
Ay , my lord . I would know that .
To be , or not to be ? That is the question -- Whether ' tis nobler in the mind to suffer The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune , Or to take arms against a sea of troubles , And , by opposing , end them ? To die , to sleep -- No more -- and by a sleep to say we end The heartache and the thousand natural shocks That flesh is heir to -- ' tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished ! To die , to sleep . To sleep , perchance to dream -- ay , there 's the rub , For in that sleep of death what dreams may come When we have shuffled off this mortal coil , Must give us pause . There 's the respect That makes calamity of so long life .
Let him that loves me strike me dead .
Faith , if he be not rotten before he die -- as we have many pocky corses nowadays that will scarce hold the laying in -- he will last you some eight year or nine year . A tanner will last you nine year .
How if your husband start some otherwhere ?
Here , an it please you .
Ay , but not enough .
Moreover , sir , which indeed is not under white and black , this plaintiff here , the offender , did call me ass . I beseech you , let it be remembered in his punishment . And also the watch heard them talk of one Deformed . They say he wears a key in his ear and a lock hanging by it and borrows money in God 's name , the which he hath used so long and never paid that now men grow hard-hearted and will lend nothing for God 's sake . Pray you , examine him upon that point .
Third , or fourth , or fifth borough , I 'll answer him by law . I 'll not budge an inch , boy . Let him come , and kindly .
Come , come , good wine is a good familiar creature , if it be well used . Exclaim no more against it . And , good lieutenant , I think you think I love you .
I know you . Where 's the king ?
And he is yours , and his must needs be yours : Your servant 's servant is your servant , madam .
And ' tis great pity that the noble Moor Should hazard such a place as his own second With one of an ingraft infirmity . It were an honest action to say So to the Moor .
Why , whose is it ?
Who 's born that day When I forget to send to Antony Shall die a beggar . Ink and paper , Charmian . Welcome , my good Alexas . Did I , Charmian , Ever love Caesar so ?
' Twere good she were spoken with , for she may strew Dangerous conjectures in ill - breeding minds .
For your life you durst not .
Save you , gentleman .
Gower is a good captain , and is good knowledge and literatured in the wars .
As rich shall Romeo 's by his lady 's lie , Poor sacrifices of our enmity .
Be it so . Here is returned my Lord of Westmoreland .
How now , daughter ? What makes that frontlet on ? Methinks you are too much of late i ' th ' frown .
Shall I go fetch your nightgown ?
It must be se offendendo . It cannot be else . For here lies the point : if I drown myself wittingly , it argues an act . And an act hath three branches -- it is to act , to do , to perform . Argal , she drowned herself wittingly .
I hope , in no place so unsanctified Where such as thou mayst find him .
I heard thee speak me a speech once , but it was never acted . Or , if it was , not above once , for the play , I remember , pleased not the million . ' Twas caviary to the general . But it was -- as I received it , and others , whose judgments in such matters cried in the top of mine -- an excellent play , well digested in the scenes , set down with as much modesty as cunning .
Sir , March is wasted fifteen days .
O calm dishonourable , vile submission ! Alla stoccata carries it away . Tybalt , you ratcatcher , will you walk ?
Fie , fie !
Go to . I stand the push of your one thing that you will tell .
Enobarbus , welcome .
Orlando , my liege , the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys .
Nothing , madam .
Nay , he 's at two hands with me , and that my two ears can witness .
Never so weary , never so in woe , Bedabbled with the dew and torn with briers , I can no further crawl , no further go . My legs can keep no pace with my desires . Here will I rest me till the break of day . Heavens shield Lysander if they mean a fray !
Thanks , courteous Wall . Jove shield thee well for this ! But what see I ? No Thisbe do I see . O wicked Wall through whom I see no bliss ! Cursed be thy stones for thus deceiving me !
God save the foundation !
What says the fellow there ? Call the clotpoll back .
Truly , I would not hang a dog by my will , much more a man who hath any honesty in him .
Rien puis ? L' air et feu ?
Come forth , I say ! There 's other business for thee . Come , thou tortoise ! When ?
Good Laertes , If you desire to know the certainty Of your dear father 's death , is ' t writ in your revenge , That , swoopstake , you will draw both friend and foe , Winner and loser ?
This was but as a fly by an eagle . We had much more monstrous matter of feast , which worthily deserved noting .
Ay , but , Sir John , methinks they are exceeding poor and bare , too beggarly .
Alas , dear love , I cannot lack thee two hours .
There 's no remedy , sir ; he will fight with you for 's oath sake . Marry , he hath better bethought him of his quarrel , and he finds that now scarce to be worth talking of . Therefore , draw for the supportance of his vow . He protests he will not hurt you .
My lord , our army is dispersed already . Like youthful steers unyoked , they take their courses East , west , north , south , or , like a school broke up , Each hurries toward his home and sporting - place .
Take the devil in thy mind , and believe him not . He would insinuate with thee but to make thee sigh .
I 'll signify so much unto him straight .
Here pitch our tent , even here in Bosworth field . -- My Lord of Surrey , why look you so sad ?
Fear not , my lord , we can contain ourselves Were he the veriest antic in the world .
This hill is far enough . --Look , look , Titinius . Are those my tents where I perceive the fire ?
More villain thou . --Well , push him out of doors And let my officers of such a nature Make an extent upon his house and lands . Do this expediently , and turn him going .
Let me go , sir , or I 'll knock you o'er the mazzard .
My fairy lord , this must be done with haste . For night 's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast , And yonder shines Aurora 's harbinger , At whose approach , ghosts , wandering here and there , Troop home to churchyards . Damned spirits all , That in crossways and floods have burial , Already to their wormy beds are gone . For fear lest day should look their shames upon , They willfully themselves exile from light And must for aye consort with black - browed night .
And in good time here comes the sweating lord .
Say what you will , sir , but I know what I know . That you beat me at the mart I have your hand to show ; If the skin were parchment and the blows you gave were ink , Your own handwriting would tell you what I think .
Caesar 's will ?
Go to . Homo is a common name to all men . Bid the ostler bring my gelding out of the stable . Farewell , you muddy knave .
Or o ' mine either ?
Pluck up thy spirits . Look cheerfully upon me . Here love , thou seest how diligent I am , To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee . I am sure , sweet Kate , this kindness merits thanks . What , not a word ? Nay , then thou lov 'st it not And all my pains is sorted to no proof . Here , take away this dish .
Commit a thing so monstrous to dismantle So many folds of favor . Sure , her offense Must be of such unnatural degree That monsters it ( or your fore - vouched affection Fall into taint ) , which to believe of her Must be a faith that reason without miracle Could never plant in me .
Why so , being gone ,
Ay , sir , I have them at my fingers ' ends . Marry , now I let go your hand , I am barren .
And then , sir , does he this , he does -- What was I about to say ? By the mass , I was about to say something . Where did I leave ?
Marry , sir , such claim as you would lay to your horse ; and she would have me as a beast ; not that I being a beast she would have me , but that she , being a very beastly creature , lays claim to me .
In time I may believe , yet I mistrust .
From top to toe ?
He is not , nor we have not heard from him . -- But go we in , I pray thee , Jessica , And ceremoniously let us prepare Some welcome for the mistress of the house .
He will forsooth have all my prisoners , And when I urged the ransom once again Of my wife 's brother , then his cheek looked pale , And on my face he turned an eye of death , Trembling even at the name of Mortimer .
Goodman Verges , sir , speaks a little off the matter . An old man , sir , and his wits are not so blunt as , God help , I would desire they were , but , in faith , honest as the skin between his brows .
Monster , your fairy , which you say is a harmless fairy , has done little better than played the jack with us .
Come hither , hostess .
Thisbe , the flowers of odious savors sweet --
O , pardon me , thou bleeding piece of earth , That I am meek and gentle with these butchers ! Thou art the ruins of the noblest man That ever lived in the tide of times . Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood ! Over thy wounds now do I prophesy -- Which , like dumb mouths , do ope their ruby lips To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue -- A curse shall light upon the limbs of men .
Out upon her ! Thou torturest me , Tubal . It was my turquoise . I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor . I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys .
Nay , let 's follow him .
All westward , Wales beyond the Severn shore , And all the fertile land within that bound To Owen Glendower ; and , dear coz , to you The remnant northward , lying off from Trent . And our indentures tripartite are drawn , Which being sealed interchangeably -- A business that this night may execute -- Tomorrow , cousin Percy , you and I And my good Lord of Worcester will set forth To meet your father and the Scottish power , As is appointed us , at Shrewsbury . My father Glendower is not ready yet , Not shall we need his help these fourteen days . Within that space you may have drawn together Your tenants , friends , and neighboring gentlemen .
As I descended ?
Portia , what mean you ? Wherefore rise you now ? It is not for your health thus to commit Your weak condition to the raw , cold morning .
Sir , I do love you more than words can wield the matter , Dearer than eyesight , space , and liberty , Beyond what can be valued , rich or rare , No less than life , with grace , health , beauty , honor , As much as child e' er loved or father found -- A love that makes breath poor and speech unable . Beyond all manner of so much I love you .
' Tis very true . O wise and upright judge ! How much more elder art thou than thy looks !
Sir , I have not you by the hand .
What does he mean ?
My purpose is , indeed , a horse of that color .
This is a fellow of the selfsame color Our sister speaks of . --Come , bring away the stocks !
I humbly thank you , sir . Dost know this water - fly ?
So much uncurbable , her garboils , Caesar , Made out of her impatience -- which not wanted Shrewdness of policy too --I grieving grant Did you too much disquiet . For that you must But say I could not help it .
Emboweled ? If thou embowel me today , I 'll give you leave to powder me and eat me too tomorrow . ' Sblood , ' twas time
" Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves . " " As much as he deserves ! " -- pause there , Morocco , And weigh thy value with an even hand . If thou beest rated by thy estimation , Thou dost deserve enough , and yet enough May not extend so far as to the lady , And yet to be afeard of my deserving Were but a weak disabling of myself . As much as I deserve ! Why , that 's the lady . I do in birth deserve her , and in fortunes , In graces , and in qualities of breeding . But more than these , in love I do deserve . What if I strayed no further , but chose here ? Let 's see once more this saying graved in gold , " Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire . " Why , that 's the lady . All the world desires her . From the four corners of the earth they come To kiss this shrine , this mortal breathing saint . The Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds Of wide Arabia are as thoroughfares now For princes to come view fair Portia . The watery kingdom , whose ambitious head Spits in the face of heaven , is no bar To stop the foreign spirits , but they come As o'er a brook to see fair Portia . One of these three contains her heavenly picture . Is ' t like that lead contains her ? ' Twere damnation To think so base a thought . It were too gross To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave . Or shall I think in silver she 's immured , Being ten times undervalued to tried gold ? O sinful thought ! Never so rich a gem Was set in worse than gold . They have in England A coin that bears the figure of an angel Stamped in gold , but that 's insculped upon . But here an angel in a golden bed
He 's now in Florence .
It alone concerns your ear . I bring no overture of war , no taxation of homage . I hold the olive in my hand . My words are as full of peace as matter .
Get you some of this distilled carduus benedictus and lay it to your heart . It is the only thing for a qualm .
and Saint George , compound a boy , half French , half English , that shall go to Constantinople and take the Turk by the beard ? Shall we not ? What say 'st thou , my fair flower de luce ?
In God 's name , what art thou ?
Faith , I saw it not , but I felt it hot in her breath .
What shall I call thee when thou art a man ?
You might do much . What is your parentage ?
Excellent good .
I know , Iago , Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter , Making it light to Cassio . Cassio , I love thee But never more be officer of mine . --
Grow this to what adverse issue it can , I will put it in practice . Be cunning in the working this , and thy fee is a thousand ducats .
That , were our royal faiths martyrs in love , We shall be winnowed with so rough a wind That even our corn shall seem as light as chaff And good from bad find no partition .
If he were dead , what would betide on me ?
Do me no slander , Douglas . By my life , If well-respected honor bid me on , I hold as little counsel with weak fear As you , my lord , or any Scot that this day lives . Let it be seen tomorrow in the battle Which of us fears .
One that but performs The bidding of the fullest man , and worthiest To have command obeyed .
Speak briefly . Can you like of Paris , love ?
Now I have taken heart thou vanishest . Ill spirit , I would hold more talk with thee . --Boy , Lucius ! --Varrus! --Claudio! --Sirs , awake ! --Claudio !
No , I 'll be sworn , unless you call three fingers in the ribs bare . But , sirrah , make haste . Percy is already in the field .
The reason is your spirits are attentive . For do but note a wild and wanton herd , Or race of youthful and unhandled colts , Fetching mad bounds , bellowing and neighing loud , Which is the hot condition of their blood -- If they but hear perchance a trumpet sound , Or any air of music touch their ears , You shall perceive them make a mutual stand , Their savage eyes turned to a modest gaze By the sweet power of music .
He shall be endured . What , goodman boy ! I say , he shall . Go to . Am I the master here , or you ? Go to . You 'll not endure him ! God shall mend my soul , You 'll make a mutiny among my guests . You will set cock - a - hoop . You 'll be the man !
You are dull , Casca , and those sparks of life That should be in a Roman you do want , Or else you use not . You look pale , and gaze , And put on fear , and cast yourself in wonder To see the strange impatience of the heavens . But if you would consider the true cause Why all these fires , why all these gliding ghosts , Why birds and beasts from quality and kind , Why old men fool and children calculate , Why all these things change from their ordinance Their natures and preformed faculties To monstrous quality -- why , you shall find That heaven hath infused them with these spirits To make them instruments of fear and warning Unto some monstrous state . Now could I , Casca , name to thee a man Most like this dreadful night , That thunders , lightens , opens graves , and roars As doth the lion in the Capitol --
Good morrow , Father .
Came you from Padua , from Bellario ?
Marry , hang thee , brock !
Look thou be true . Do not give dalliance Too much the rein . The strongest oaths are straw To th ' fire i ' th ' blood . Be more abstemious , Or else , goodnight your vow .
Madam , he 's married to Octavia .
' Tis here .
He greets me well , sir . I knew him a good backsword man . How doth the good knight ? May I ask how my lady his wife doth ?
How many times shall Caesar bleed in sport , That now on Pompey 's basis lies along No worthier than the dust !
Why , it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes , and the clerestories toward the south-north are as lustrous as ebony . And yet complainest thou of obstruction ?
Let me go , I say .
Why so you are , my thrice - renowned lord .
His eyes are humbler than they used to be .
A herald , ho , a herald !
Set your heart at rest . The Fairyland buys not the child of me . His mother was a votaress of my order , And in the spiced Indian air by night Full often hath she gossiped by my side , And sat with me on Neptune 's yellow sands , Marking th ' embarked traders on the flood , When we have laughed to see the sails conceive And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind ; Which she , with pretty and with swimming gait Following -- her womb then rich with my young squire -- Would imitate , and sail upon the land To fetch me trifles and return again As from a voyage , rich with merchandise . But she , being mortal , of that boy did die . And for her sake do I rear up her boy , And for her sake I will not part with him .
Bless you , fair shrew .
She will , she will . Justice hath liquored her . We steal as in a castle , cocksure . We have the receipt of fern seed ; we walk invisible .
How do you , pretty lady ?
The Archdeacon hath divided it Into three limits very equally : England , from Trent and Severn hitherto , By south and east is to my part assigned ;
I may say so when I please .
How goes the field ?
You are in the right . Good night , lieutenant , I must to the watch .
The King himself , who , Douglas , grieves at heart , So many of his shadows thou hast met And not the very king . I have two boys Seek Percy and thyself about the field , But , seeing thou fall 'st on me so luckily , I will assay thee . And defend thyself .
The good years shall devour them , flesh and fell , Ere they shall make us weep . We 'll see ' em starve first . Come .
She did indeed .
I know not how they sold themselves , but thou , like a kind fellow , gavest thyself away gratis , and I thank thee for thee .
Will it be ever thus ? Ungracious wretch , Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves , Where manners ne'er were preach 'd ! Out of my sight ! -- Be not offended , dear Cesario . -- Rudesby , be gone !
Go with me to the vault .
Of all men else I have avoided thee . But get thee back . My soul is too much charged With blood of thine already .
An Englishman ?
No , sir .
No.
Make that good .
Time , thou anticipat 'st my dread exploits . The flighty purpose never is o'ertook Unless the deed go with it . From this moment The very firstlings of my heart shall be The firstlings of my hand . And even now , To crown my thoughts with acts , be it thought and done : The castle of Macduff I will surprise , Seize upon Fife , give to th ' edge o ' th ' sword His wife , his babes , and all unfortunate souls That trace him in his line . No boasting like a fool . This deed I 'll do before this purpose cool . But no more sights ! --Where are these gentlemen ? Come , bring me where they are .
Faith , we met and found the quarrel was upon the seventh cause .
' Tis wonderful .
' Tis time to part .
Royal wench ! She made great Caesar lay his sword to bed . He plowed her , and she cropped .
Sir , your wit ambles well ; it goes easily .
Strike not by land ; keep whole . Provoke not battle Till we have done at sea . Do not exceed The prescript of this scroll .
His face was as the heavens , and therein stuck A sun and moon , which kept their course and lighted The little " O , " the earth .
But who comes here ? My father , poorly led ? World , world , O world ! But that thy strange mutations make us hate thee , Life would not yield to age .
That will not be in haste .
Who talks within there ? Ho , open the door .
In bed asleep while they do dream things true .
I will dispatch it straight .
' Tis Banquo 's then .
What 's thy name ?
Ay , but I know --
Sir Toby , there you lie .
Every offense is not a hate at first .
' Tis he . Oh , brave Iago , honest and just , That hast such noble sense of thy friend 's wrong !
Fare thee well . Remain thou still in darkness . Thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras ere I will allow of thy wits , and fear to kill a woodcock lest thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam . Fare thee well .
I would they 'd fight i ' th ' fire or i ' th ' air , We 'd fight there too . But this it is : our foot Upon the hills adjoining to the city Shall stay with us . Order for sea is given ; They have put forth the haven , Where their appointment we may best discover And look on their endeavor .
Methinks , mistress , you should have little reason for that . And yet , to say the truth , reason and love keep little company together nowadays . The more the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends . Nay , I can gleek upon occasion .
Now I 'll tell you without asking . My master is the great rich Capulet , and if you be not of the house of Montagues , I pray come and crush a cup of wine . Rest you merry !
Nor our strong sorrow Upon the foot of motion .
Here comes the little villain .
The gold I gave to Dromio is laid up Safe at the Centaur , and the heedful slave Is wandered forth , in care to seek me out . By computation and mine host 's report , I could not speak with Dromio since at first I sent him from the mart . See , here he comes .
Ha , ha , ha ! --Well , masters , good night . An there be any matter of weight chances , call up me . Keep your fellows ' counsels and your own ; and good night . --Come , neighbor .
' Twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here .
Accursed and unquiet wrangling days , How many of you have mine eyes beheld ? My husband lost his life to get the crown , And often up and down my sons were tossed For me to joy , and weep , their gain and loss . And being seated , and domestic broils Clean overblown , themselves the conquerors Make war upon themselves , brother to brother , Blood to blood , self against self . O , preposterous And frantic outrage , end thy damned spleen , Or let me die , to look on death no more .
Pray you , put up your dagger and put out your wit .
Anon , sir .
Away , away , be gone .
What 's your grace 's will ?
Why let it strike ?
I have been worth the whistle .
Patience once more whiles our compact is urged . You say , if I bring in your Rosalind , You will bestow her on Orlando here ?
Nor anyone .
Our worser thoughts heavens mend . Alexas ! Come , his fortune , his fortune ! Oh , let him marry a woman that cannot go , sweet Isis , I beseech thee , and let her die too , and give him a worse , and let worse follow worse , till the worst of all follow him laughing to his grave , fifty - fold a cuckold ! Good Isis , hear me this prayer , though thou deny me a matter of more weight , good Isis , I beseech thee !
My lord and lady , it is now our time , That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper , To cry , " Good joy , good joy , my lord and lady ! "
To answer that , I should confess to you .
I was not angry since I came to France Until this instant . Take a trumpet , herald . Ride thou unto the horsemen on yond hill . If they will fight with us , bid them come down , Or void the field . They do offend our sight . If they 'll do neither , we will come to them And make them skirr away as swift as stones Enforced from the old Assyrian slings . Besides , we 'll cut the throats of those we have , And not a man of them that we shall take Shall taste our mercy . Go and tell them so .
" Informed them " ? Dost thou understand me , man ?
Marry , that can Hero ! Hero itself can blot out Hero 's virtue . What man was he talked with you yesternight Out at your window betwixt twelve and one ? Now , if you are a maid , answer to this .
Where 's Monsieur Mustardseed ?
Still so cruel ?
Nor I , assure thee , Regan . -- Edmund , I hear that you have shown your father A childlike office .
What , wilt thou hear some music , my sweet love ?
It is as easy as lying . Govern these ventages with your fingers and thumb , give it breath with your mouth , and it will discourse most eloquent music . Look you , these are the stops .
O God , sir , here 's a dish I love not . I cannot endure my Lady Tongue !
Write from us to him . Post - post - haste , dispatch .
By heaven , methinks it were an easy leap To pluck bright honor from the pale-faced moon , Or dive into the bottom of the deep , Where fathom line could never touch the ground , And pluck up drowned honor by the locks , So he that doth redeem her thence might wear Without corrival all her dignities . But out upon this half - faced fellowship !
Edward the duke of York , the earl of Suffolk , Sir Richard Ketly , Davy Gam , esquire ; None else of name , and of all other men But five and twenty . O God , thy arm was here , And not to us but to thy arm alone Ascribe we all ! When , without stratagem , But in plain shock and even play of battle , Was ever known so great and little loss On one part and on th ' other ? Take it , God , For it is none but thine .
I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed .
And brief , good mother , for I am in haste .
Catesby , fly to the duke .
Yes , sir . Here is now the smith 's note for shoeing and plow irons .
Away , I do beseech you , both away . I 'll board him presently . O , give me leave .
Oh peace , Prince Dauphin ! You are too much mistaken in this king . Question your Grace the late ambassadors With what great state he heard their embassy , How well supplied with noble counselors , How modest in exception , and withal How terrible in constant resolution , And you shall find his vanities forespent Were but the outside of the Roman Brutus , Covering discretion with a coat of folly , As gardeners do with ordure hide those roots That shall first spring and be most delicate .
From a god to a bull : a heavy decension . It was Jove 's case . From a prince to a ' prentice : a low transformation that shall be mine , for in everything the purpose must weigh with the folly . Follow me , Ned .
Hail !
Good time of day unto my gracious lord .
Hey , Mountain , hey !
Meaning " to curtsy " ?
If they have done this deed , my noble lord --
Do we all holy rites . Let there be sung Non nobis and Te Deum , The dead with charity enclosed in clay , And then to Calais , and to England then , Where ne'er from France arrived more happy men .
Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt 's death , And therefore have I little talked of love , For Venus smiles not in a house of tears . Now , sir , her father counts it dangerous That she do give her sorrow so much sway , And in his wisdom hastes our marriage To stop the inundation of her tears -- Which , too much minded by herself alone , May be put from her by society . Now do you know the reason of this haste .
Art thou gone so , love , lord ? Ay , husband , friend , I must hear from thee every day in the hour , For in a minute there are many days . Oh , by this count I shall be much in years Ere I again behold my Romeo .
For what reason ?
Under Sir Thomas Erpingham .
So have I heard and do in part believe it . But look , the morn , in russet mantle clad , Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill . Break we our watch up , and by my advice , Let us impart what we have seen tonight Unto young Hamlet , for , upon my life , This spirit , dumb to us , will speak to him . Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it , As needful in our loves , fitting our duty ?
Now , by my hood , a gentle and no Jew .
In youth when I did love , did love , Methought it was very sweet To contract - o - the time , for - a - my behove , Oh , methought , there - a - was nothing - a - meet .
Where is this sight ?
Before the time be out ? No more !
Yea , or to paint himself ? For the which I hear what they say of him .
Cousins , you know what you have to do . --O , I cry you mercy , friend . Go you with me and I will use your skill . -- Good cousin , have a care this busy time .
This can be no trick . The conference was sadly borne ; they have the truth of this from Hero ; they seem to pity the lady . It seems her affections have their full bent . Love me ? Why , it must be requited ! I hear how I am censured . They sy I will bear myself proudly if I perceive the love come from her . They say , too , that she will rather die than give any sign of affection . I did never think to marry . I must not seem proud . Happy are they that hear their detractions and can put them to mending . They say the lady is fair ; ' tis a truth , I can bear them witness . And virtuous ; ' tis so , I cannot reprove it . And wise , but for loving me ; by my troth , it is no addition to her wit , nor no great argument of her folly , for I will be horribly in love with her ! I may chance have some odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me because I have railed so long against marriage , but doth not the appetite alter ? A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age . Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of the brain awe a man from the career of his humor ? No ! The world must be peopled . When I said I would die a bachelor , I did not think I should live till I were married . Here comes Beatrice . By this day , she 's a fair lady . I do spy some marks of love in her .
Sings It was the friar of orders gray , As he forth walked on his way : -- A servant tries to take off PETRUCHIO 's boots . Out , you rogue ! You pluck my foot awry . Take that , and mend the plucking off the other . Strikes him Be merry , Kate . --Some water , here , what , ho ! Where 's my spaniel Troilus ? Sirrah , get you hence And bid my cousin Ferdinand come hither .
How now , Roderigo !
To the Welsh lady 's bed .
But where was this ?
Wherefore to Dover? --Let him first answer that .
This is no answer , thou unfeeling man , To excuse the current of thy cruelty .
Here , noble lord . What is thy will with her ?
What , shall this speech be spoke for our excuse ? Or shall we on without apology ?
Gramercies , Tranio , well dost thou advise . If , Biondello , thou wert come ashore , We could at once put us in readiness And take a lodging fit to entertain Such friends as time in Padua shall beget . But stay awhile . What company is this ?
Shall I tell you why ?
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel When well - appareled April on the heel Of limping winter treads . Even such delight Among fresh fennel buds shall you this night Inherit at my house . Hear all , all see , And like her most whose merit most shall be -- Which on more view of many , mine , being one , May stand in number , though in reckoning none , Come , go with me .
Nay , master , both in mind and in my shape .
Right well , dear madam . By your patience , I may not suffer you to visit them . The king hath strictly charged the contrary .
None , but your beauty . Would that fault were mine !
And where the worser is predominant , Full soon the canker death eats up that plant .
His master and he , saving your worship 's reverence , are scarce cater - cousins --
Well , my dread lord -- so must I call you now .
I go ; and towards three or four o'clock Look for the news that the Guildhall affords .
You were half blasted ere I knew you . Ha ! Have I my pillow left unpressed in Rome , Forborne the getting of a lawful race , And by a gem of women , to be abused By one that looks on feeders ?
Farewell , my Desdemona . I 'll come to thee straight .
He calls us back . My pride fell with my fortunes . I 'll ask him what he would . --Did you call , sir ? Sir , you have wrestled well and overthrown More than your enemies .
Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while , Till we can clear these ambiguities And know their spring , their head , their true descent , And then will I be general of your woes , And lead you even to death . Meantime forbear , And let mischance be slave to patience . -- Bring forth the parties of suspicion .
My most dear Gloucester !
Speak .
Lysander riddles very prettily . Now much beshrew my manners and my pride If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied . But , gentle friend , for love and courtesy Lie further off in human modesty . Such separation as may well be said Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid . So far be distant . And , good night , sweet friend . Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end !
Catesby , I come . --Lords , will you go with me ?
Sirrah , I will not bear these braves of thine .
Farewell , Monsieur Traveler . Look you lisp and wear strange suits , disable all the benefits of your own country , be out of love with your nativity , and almost chide God for making you that countenance you are , or I will scarce think you have swam in a gondola .
Then move not , while my prayer 's effect I take .
Oh , did he so ? I charge you , go with me .
Sister , have comfort . All of us have cause To wail the dimming of our shining star , But none can help our harms by wailing them . -- Madam , my mother , I do cry you mercy ; I did not see your Grace . Humbly on my knee I crave your blessing .
Then must thou needs find out new heaven , new earth .
They bore him barefaced on the bier , Hey , non nonny , nonny , hey , nonny , And in his grave rained many a tear . Fare you well , my dove .
Ay , he does well enough if he be disposed , and so do I too . He does it with a better grace , but I do it more natural .
I do not desire he should answer for me , and yet I determine to fight lustily for him .
Ay , to me . She is abused , stol'n from me , and corrupted By spells and medicines bought of mountebanks .
With all my heart .
March on , march on , since we are up in arms , If not to fight with foreign enemies , Yet to beat down these rebels here at home .
Father , ' tis thus : yourself and all the world That talked of her have talked amiss of her . If she be curst , it is for policy , For she 's not froward , but modest as the dove . She is not hot , but temperate as the morn . For patience she will prove a second Grissel , And Roman Lucrece for her chastity . And to conclude , we have ' greed so well together , That upon Sunday is the wedding day .
Who has done this , Sir Andrew ?
But , hark ! What noise ?
A dish that I do love to feed upon .
As the cony that you see dwell where she is kindled .
What , To kiss in private ?
Let me love him for that , and do you love him because I do . Look , here comes the duke .
So is all her sect . An they be once in a calm , they are sick .
I hope so .
Would I could meet him , madam , I should show What party I do follow .
I buy a thousand pound a year ! I buy a rope !
I will .
God keep your Lordship in that gracious mind .
This matched with other did , my gracious lord . For more uneven and unwelcome news Came from the north and thus it did import : On Holy - rood Day , the gallant Hotspur there , Young Harry Percy , and brave Archibald , That ever valiant and approved Scot , At Holmedon met , where they did spend A sad and bloody hour -- As by discharge of their artillery And shape of likelihood the news was told ; For he that brought them , in the very heat And pride of their contention did take horse , Uncertain of the issue any way .
Indeed she 's a most fresh and delicate creature .
She hath spied him already with those sweet eyes .
Their affairs . One of this kind is Cassio . In sleep I heard him say " Sweet Desdemona , Let us be wary , let us hide our loves . " And then , sir , would he gripe and wring my hand , Cry " O sweet creature ! " and then kiss me hard , As if he plucked up kisses by the roots That grew upon my lips , lay his leg Over my thigh , and sigh , and kiss , and then Cry " Cursed fate that gave thee to the Moor ! "
But if you do refuse to marry me , You 'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd ?
Madam .
Where 's your yeoman ? Is ' t a lusty yeoman ? Will a ' stand to ' t ?
Sir , pardon . A soldier is better accommodated than with a wife .
I pant for life . Some good I mean to do Despite of mine own nature . Quickly send -- Be brief in it -- to th ' castle , for my writ Is on the life of Lear and on Cordelia . Nay , send in time !
You are resolute , then ?
Oh , what a deal of scorn looks beautiful In the contempt and anger of his lip ! A murderous guilt shows not itself more soon Than love that would seem hid . Love 's night is noon . Cesario , by the roses of the spring , By maidhood , honor , truth , and everything , I love thee so , that , maugre all thy pride , Nor wit nor reason can my passion hide . Do not extort thy reasons from this clause , For that I woo , thou therefore hast no cause , But rather reason thus with reason fetter . Love sought is good , but given unsought better .
No more , cousin .
Let the drum strike and prove my title thine .
Forever and a day .
I hope , not dead .
Plague on ' t , an I thought he had been valiant and so cunning in fence , I 'd have seen him damned ere I 'd have challenged him . Let him let the matter slip , and I 'll give him my horse , gray Capilet .
You speak to Casca , and to such a man That is no fleering telltale . Hold , my hand . Be factious for redress of all these griefs , And I will set this foot of mine as far As who goes farthest .
To tell you true , I counterfeit him .
Peace , you mumbling fool ! Utter your gravity o'er a gossip 's bowl , For here we need it not .
Who 's his lieutenant , hear you ?
Sir , at the farthest for a week or two , But then up farther , and as far as Rome , And so to Tripoli , if God lend me life .
I fear thou wilt once more come again for a ransom .
Think of this , good peers , But as a thing of custom . ' Tis no other ; Only it spoils the pleasure of the time .
I did not think you could have been so angry .
Go , get thee gone . Fetch me an iron crow .
The Dauphin longs for morning .
A good direction , warlike sovereign .
See for the news .
Certainly , sir , I can .
Come on , sir .
What , is it a time to jest and dally now ?
Why will you mew her up , Signior Baptista , for this fiend of hell And make her bear the penance of her tongue ?
Why , then the Polack never will defend it .
Neither call the giddiness of it in question , the poverty of her , the small acquaintance , my sudden wooing , nor her sudden consenting , but say with me " I love Aliena " ; say with her that she loves me ; consent with both that we may enjoy each other . It shall be to your good , for my father 's house and all the revenue that was old Sir Rowland 's will I estate upon you , and here live and die a shepherd .
Caesar , I will . And so near will I be That your best friends shall wish I had been further .
This is a strange thing as e' er I looked on .
Oh , I am slain .
E' en so .
Here comes the furious Tybalt back again .
Domestic fury and fierce civil strife Shall cumber all the parts of Italy . Blood and destruction shall be so in use , And dreadful objects so familiar , That mothers shall but smile when they behold Their infants quartered with the hands of war , All pity choked with custom of fell deeds , And Caesar 's spirit , ranging for revenge , With Ate by his side come hot from hell , Shall in these confines with a monarch 's voice Cry " Havoc ! " and let slip the dogs of war , That this foul deed shall smell above the earth With carrion men , groaning for burial .
Sir , there is especial commission come from Venice to depute Cassio in Othello 's place .
Before the days of change , still is it so . By a divine instinct , men 's minds mistrust Ensuing dangers , as by proof we see The water swell before a boist'rous storm . But leave it all to God . Whither away ?
Oh , no , for the duke 's daughter her cousin so loves her , being ever from their cradles bred together , that she would have followed her exile or have died to stay behind her . She is at the court , and no less beloved of her uncle than his own daughter , and never two ladies loved as they do .
Devil !
He says he will return incontinent , And hath commanded me to go to bed And bid me to dismiss you .
Yea , joy , our chains and our jewels .
Now , what 's the business ?
Yes , faith , it is my cousin 's duty to make curtsy and say , " Father , as it please you . " But yet for all that , cousin , let him be a handsome fellow , or else make another curtsy and say , " Father , as it please me . "
Let him thank me , that holp to send him thither , For he was fitter for that place than earth .
What man art thou that , thus bescreened in night , So stumblest on my counsel ?
O , reason not the need ! Our basest beggars Are in the poorest thing superfluous . Allow not nature more than nature needs , Man 's life 's as cheap as beast 's . Thou art a lady . If only to go warm were gorgeous , Why , nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st , Which scarcely keeps thee warm . But , for true need -- You heavens , give me that patience , patience I need . You see me here , you gods , a poor old man , As full of grief as age , wretched in both . If it be you that stir these daughters ' hearts Against their father , fool me not so much To bear it tamely . Touch me with noble anger . And let not women 's weapons , water drops , Stain my man 's cheeks ! No , you unnatural hags ,
I 'll tell thee how Beatrice praised thy wit he other day . I said thou hadst a fine wit . " True , " said she , " a fine little one . " " No , " said I , " a great wit . " " Right , " says she , " a great gross one . " " Nay , " said I , " a good wit . " " Just , " said she , " it hurts nobody . " " Nay , " said I , " the gentleman is wise . " " Certain , " said she , " a wise gentleman . " " Nay , " said I , " he hath the tongues . " " That I believe , " said she , " for he swore a thing to me on Monday night , which he forswore on Tuesday morning ; there 's a double tongue , there 's two tongues . " Thus did she an hour together transshape thy particular virtues . Yet at last she concluded with a sigh , thou wast the proper 'st man in Italy .
I 'll tell the news . Here comes the general . --Brutus is ta'en , Brutus is ta'en , my lord .
Sir , sooth to say , you did not dine at home .
Nay then , I will not . You shall have the mustard Or else you get no beef of Grumio .
With all my heart I 'll sit and hear her sing . By that time will our book , I think , be drawn
Oh , but she 'll keep her word .
Officers , what offense have these men done ?
Trust to thy single virtue , for thy soldiers , All levied in my name , have in my name Took their discharge .
Hear me , hear me what I say : he that strikes the first stroke , I 'll run him up to the hilts , as I am a soldier .
I mean , an we be in choler , we 'll draw .
Why , that was he .
So please you , something touching the Lord Hamlet .
What ill request did Brutus make to thee ?
I think it is good morrow , is it not ?
Who governs here ?
No , Cassius , no . Think not , thou noble Roman , That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome . He bears too great a mind . But this same day Must end that work the ides of March begun . And whether we shall meet again I know not . Therefore our everlasting farewell take . Forever and forever farewell , Cassius . If we do meet again , why , we shall smile . If not , why then this parting was well made .
I beseech you pardon me , my lord , if I be mistaken -- for my duty cannot be silent when I think your highness wronged .
Sir , I lack advancement .
Yea , and you knew me , as you did when you ran away by Gad 's Hill . You knew I was at your back , and spoke it on purpose to try my patience .
Even what it please my lord that shall become him .
Ho , daughter , are you up ?
I have inly wept , Or should have spoke ere this . Look down , you gods , And on this couple drop a blessed crown , For it is you that have chalked forth the way Which brought us hither .
Rebellious subjects , enemies to peace , Profaners of this neighbor - stained steel ! -- Will they not hear?- -What , ho ! You men , you beasts , That quench the fire of your pernicious rage With purple fountains issuing from your veins , On pain of torture , from those bloody hands Throw your mistempered weapons to the ground , And hear the sentence of your moved prince . Three civil brawls , bred of an airy word , By thee , old Capulet , and Montague , Have thrice disturbed the quiet of our streets And made Verona 's ancient citizens Cast by their grave - beseeming ornaments , To wield old partisans in hands as old , Cankered with peace , to part your cankered hate . If ever you disturb our streets again , Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace . For this time , all the rest depart away . You , Capulet , shall go along with me , And , Montague , come you this afternoon To know our farther pleasure in this case , To old Free - town , our common judgment - place . Once more , on pain of death , all men depart .
Nay , take my life and all . Pardon not that . You take my house when you do take the prop That doth sustain my house . You take my life When you do take the means whereby I live .
Give me thy hand . Thou hast been rightly honest . --So hast thou , -- Thou , -- and thou , -- and thou . You have served me well , And kings have been your fellows .
What black magician conjures up this fiend To stop devoted charitable deeds ?
Do you like him , Sir John ?
Yea , but I doubt they will be too hard for us .
Then , window , let day in and let life out .
What I believe I 'll wail ; What know believe , and what I can redress , As I shall find the time to friend , I will . What you have spoke , it may be so perchance . This tyrant , whose sole name blisters our tongues , Was once thought honest . You have loved him well . He hath not touched you yet . I am young , but something You may deserve of him through me , and wisdom To offer up a weak , poor , innocent lamb T ' appease an angry god .
O monstrous ! But one halfpennyworth of bread to this intolerable deal of sack ! What there is else , keep close . We 'll read it at more advantage . There let him sleep till day . I 'll to the court in the morning . We must all to the wars , and thy place shall be honorable . I 'll procure this fat rogue a charge of foot , and I know his death will be a march of twelve score . The money shall be paid back again with advantage . Be with me betimes in the morning , and so good morrow , Peto .
I thank you for your wish , and am well pleased To wish it back on you . Fare you well , Jessica .
What services canst thou do ?
How shalt thou hope for mercy , rendering none ?
Jockey of Norfolk , be not so bold . For Dickon thy master is bought and sold . A thing devised by the enemy . -- Go , gentlemen , every man unto his charge . Let not our babbling dreams affright our souls . Conscience is but a word that cowards use , Devised at first to keep the strong in awe . Our strong arms be our conscience , swords our law .
Nay , I will . That 's flat ! He said he would not ransom Mortimer , Forbad my tongue to speak of Mortimer . But I will find him when he lies asleep , And in his ear I 'll hollo " Mortimer . " Nay , I 'll have a starling shall be taught to speak Nothing but " Mortimer , " and give it him To keep his anger still in motion .
I was provoked by her sland'rous tongue , That laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders .
Ha , ha , ha !
No , my lord .
Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly ? By this kind of chase I should hate him , for my father hated his father dearly . Yet I hate not Orlando .
Love is merely a madness and , I tell you , deserves as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do , and the reason why they are not so punished and cured is that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers are in love , too . Yet I profess curing it by counsel .
Take your time .
Sure , you have some hideous matter to deliver , when the courtesy of it is so fearful . Speak your office .
Come , uncle Exeter , Go you and enter Harfleur . There remain And fortify it strongly ' gainst the French . Use mercy to them all for us , dear uncle , The winter coming on and sickness growing Upon our soldiers , we will retire to Calais . Tonight in Harfleur will we be your guest ; Tomorrow for the march are we addressed .
Hail , mortal .
O deadly sin ! O rude unthankfulness ! Thy fault our law calls death , but the kind Prince , Taking thy part , hath rushed aside the law , And turned that black word " death " to " banishment . " This is dear mercy , and thou seest it not .
Dead shepherd , now I find thy saw of might : " Who ever loved that loved not at first sight ? "
It is with a good will . I can tell you it will serve you to mend your shoes . Come , wherefore should you be so pashful ? Your shoes is not so good . ' Tis a good silling , I warrant you , or I will change it .
It must be by his death , and for my part I know no personal cause to spurn at him But for the general . He would be crowned . How that might change his nature , there 's the question . It is the bright day that brings forth the adder And that craves wary walking . Crown him that , And then I grant we put a sting in him That at his will he may do danger with .
As good cause as one would desire . Therefore weep .
What , did my father 's godson seek your life?- - He whom my father named , your Edgar ?
Sweet soul , let 's in , and there expect their coming . And yet no matter . Why should we go in?- - My friend Stephano , signify , I pray you , Within the house , your mistress is at hand . And bring your music forth into the air .
Celerity is never more admired Than by the negligent .
I grant your Worship that he is a knave , sir , but yet , God forbid , sir , but a knave should have some countenance at his friend 's request . An honest man , sir , is able to speak for himself when a knave is not . I have served your Worship truly , sir , this eight years ; an if I cannot once or twice in a quarter bear out a knave against an honest man , I have
Sole sir o ' th ' world , I cannot project mine own cause so well To make it clear , but do confess I have Been laden with like frailties which before Have often shamed our sex .
What is the reason of this terrible summons ? What is the matter there ?
Good madam .
Now , Falstaff , where have you been all this while ? When everything is ended , then you come . These tardy tricks of yours will , on my life , One time or other break some gallows ' back .
If these be true spies which I wear in my head , here 's a goodly sight .
Judgment ?
Sirrah , if they meet not with Saint Nicholas ' clerks , I 'll give thee this neck .
Thy father ! O villain ! He is a sailmaker in Bergamo .
Oh , well - a - day , Lady ! If he be not hewn now , we shall see willful adultery and murder committed .
Dost thou mock me ?
Think you , my lord , this little prating York Was not incensed by his subtle mother To taunt and scorn you thus opprobriously ?
O learned judge ! --Mark , Jew , a learned judge !
If you 'll sit down , I 'll bear your logs the while . Pray , give me that . I 'll carry it to the pile .
We 'll show thee Io as she was a maid And how she was beguileed and surprised , As lively painted as the deed was done .
What mean you , sir ? For God 's sake , hold your hands . Nay , an you will not , sir , I 'll take my heels .
Report is changeable . Tis time to look about . The powers of the kingdom approach apace .
I do .
Alexander the Great .
Madam , I will .
Till I shall see you in your soldiers ' dress , Which will become you both , farewell .
Marry , on Hero , the daughter and heir of Leonato .
To my sick soul Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss . So full of artless jealousy is guilt , It spills itself in fearing to be spilt .
Peace . Here comes my sister reading . Stand aside .
Would I had never seen her !
Farewell , farewell .
And then it started like a guilty thing Upon a fearful summons . I have heard The cock , that is the trumpet to the morn , Doth with his lofty and shrill - sounding throat Awake the god of day , and , at his warning , Whether in sea or fire , in earth or air , Th ' extravagant and erring spirit hies To his confine , and of the truth herein This present object made probation .
I thank God , I thank God ! Is ' t true , is ' t true ?
I prithee , spare .
But there 's a saying very old and true : " If that you will France win , Then with Scotland first begin . " For once the eagle England being in prey , To her unguarded nest the weasel Scot Comes sneaking and so sucks her princely eggs , Playing the mouse in absence of the cat , To ' tame and havoc more than she can eat .
Two truths are told , As happy prologues to the swelling act Of the imperial theme . I thank you , gentlemen . This supernatural soliciting Cannot be ill , cannot be good . If ill , Why hath it given me earnest of success , Commencing in a truth ? I am thane of Cawdor . If good , why do I yield to that suggestion Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair And make my seated heart knock at my ribs , Against the use of nature ? Present fears Are less than horrible imaginings .
Thou but rememberest me of mine own conception . I have perceived a most faint neglect of late , which I have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity than as a very pretense and purpose of unkindness . I will look further into ' t . But where 's my fool ? I have not seen him this two days .
Why I do trifle thus with his despair Is done to cure it .
Little .
Not a hair perished . On their sustaining garments not a blemish , But fresher than before . And , as thou badest me , In troops I have dispersed them ' bout the isle . The king 's son have I landed by himself , Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs In an odd angle of the isle , and sitting , His arms in this sad knot .
Cudgel thy brains no more about it , for your dull ass will not mend his pace with beating . And when you are asked this question next , say " A grave - maker . " The houses that he makes last till doomsday . Go , get thee in . Fetch me a stoup of liquor .
Is Banquo gone from court ?
Either be patient and entreat me fair , Or with the clamorous report of war Thus will I drown your exclamations .
What , I pray you ?
They would not have you to stir forth today . Plucking the entrails of an offering forth , They could not find a heart within the beast .
Sirrah , here will be the Prince and Master Poins anon , and they will put on two of our jerkins and aprons , and Sir John must not know of it . Bardolph hath brought word .
Kisses her
I have no way , and therefore want no eyes .
Ay , sir , I have a pretty wit .
Stay , on thy peril . I alone will go .
Madam , your mother craves a word with you .
The people fear me , for they do observe Unfathered heirs and loathly births of nature . The seasons change their manners , as the year Had found some months asleep and leapt them over .
No , I 'll none of it . I pray thee keep that for the hangman , for I know thou worshipest Saint Nicholas as truly as a man of falsehood may .
That 's fifty-five year ago .
Ay , be so , good Touchstone .
Octavius , then take him to follow thee , That did the latest service to my master .
Knock , knock , knock ! Who 's there , i ' th ' name of Beelzebub ? Here 's a farmer that hanged himself on the expectation of plenty . Come in time , have napkins enough about you , here you 'll sweat for ' t .
To seek my uncle in the Forest of Arden .
Would thou and those thy scars had once prevailed To make me fight at land !
Welcome , good Robin . Seest thou this sweet sight ? Her dotage now I do begin to pity . For , meeting her of late behind the wood , Seeking sweet favors from this hateful fool , I did upbraid her and fall out with her . For she his hairy temples then had rounded With a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers , And that same dew , which sometime on the buds Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls , Stood now within the pretty flowerets ' eyes Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail . When I had at my pleasure taunted her And she in mild terms begged my patience , I then did ask of her her changeling child , Which straight she gave me and her fairy sent To bear him to my bower in Fairyland . And now I have the boy , I will undo This hateful imperfection of her eyes . And , gentle Puck , take this transformed scalp From off the head of this Athenian swain , That , he awaking when the other do , May all to Athens back again repair And think no more of this night 's accidents But as the fierce vexation of a dream . But first I will release the fairy queen .
Prates . --What say you , Hugh Rebeck ?
Villains , set down the corse or , by Saint Paul , I 'll make a corse of him that disobeys .
That will I , Pompey .
A hundred marks , my Kate does put her down .
Good morrow , sweet Hero .
By the Mass , here will be old utis . It will be an excellent stratagem .
Hail , King of Scotland !
O thou dull Moor ! That handkerchief thou speak 'st of I found by fortune and did give my husband . For often , with a solemn earnestness -- More than indeed belonged to such a trifle -- He begged of me to steal it .
I bought him in Paul 's , and he 'll buy me a horse in Smithfield . An I could get me but a wife in the stews , I were manned , horsed , and wived .
Do so . To ebb Hereditary sloth instructs me .
My lord , the king your father .
O Ratcliffe , I fear , I fear .
The selfsame name , but one of better nature .
What imports the nomination of this gentleman ?
Moral ! No , by my troth , I have no moral meaning . I meant plain holy thistle . You may think perchance that I think you are in love . Nay , by ' r Lady , I am not such a fool to think what I list , nor I list not to think what I can , nor indeed I cannot think , if I would think my heart out of thinking , that you are in love or that you will be in love or that you can be in love . Yet Benedick was such another , and now is he become a man . He swore he would never marry , and yet now , in despite of his heart , he eats his meat without grudging . And how you may be converted I know not , but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do .
Caesar , ' tis strucken eight .
But is this law ?
Why , well .
Before , and greet his Grace . -- My lord , we come .
Your love says , like an honest gentleman , and a courteous , and a kind , and a handsome , and , I warrant , a virtuous -- Where is your mother ?
You lie out on ' t , sir , and therefore it is not yours . For my part , I do not lie in ' t , and yet it is mine .
I know no news , my lord .
He did , from first to last . Why dost thou ask ?
No more , no more .
Come with a thought . I thank thee , Ariel . Come .
Thou hast , Ventidius , that Without the which a soldier and his sword Grants scarce distinction . Thou wilt write to Antony ?
The king doth wake tonight and takes his rouse , Keeps wassail and the swaggering upspring reels , And , as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down , The kettle - drum and trumpet thus bray out The triumph of his pledge .
Ay , mother , but I would not have it so .
I have already delivered him letters , and there appears much joy in him -- even so much that joy could not show itself modest enough without a badge of bitterness .
O knight , thou lackest a cup of canary . When did I see thee so put down ?
Thy biddings have been done , and every hour , Most noble Caesar , shalt thou have report How ' tis abroad . Pompey is strong at sea , And it appears he is beloved of those That only have feared Caesar . To the ports The discontents repair , and men 's reports Give him much wronged .
Why , how now , Hecate ! You look angerly .
A piece of him .
Come , my masters , let us share , and then to horse before day . An the Prince and Poins be not two arrant cowards , there 's no equity stirring . There 's no more valor in that Poins than in a wild duck .
Thou mightst have done this without thy beard and gown . He sees thee not .
God send you , sir , a speedy infirmity , for the better increasing your folly ! Sir Toby will be sworn that I am no fox , but he will not pass his word for two pence that you are no fool .
If partially affined or leagued in office Thou dost deliver more or less than truth Thou art no soldier .
Come , shall I make you two friends ? We must to France together . Why the devil should we keep knives to cut one another 's throats ?
Some innocents 'scape not the thunderbolt . Melt Egypt into Nile , and kindly creatures Turn all to serpents . Call the slave again . Though I am mad , I will not bite him . Call !
Come , let us to our holy task again . -- Farewell , my cousin . Farewell , gentle friends .
You wrong me more , sir , in denying it . Consider how it stands upon my credit .
Go find him out , And we will nothing waste till you return .
If he be taken , he shall never more Be feared of doing harm . Make your own purpose How in my strength you please . --For you , Edmund , Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant So much commend itself , you shall be ours . Natures of such deep trust we shall much need . You we first seize on .
Did 'st speak him fair ?
Oh , monstrous ! Monstrous !
But how , my lord , shall we resist it now ?
Good , Peter , to hide her face , for her fan 's the fairer face .
With her ?
It likes us well , And at our more considered time we 'll read , Answer , and think upon this business . Meantime we thank you for your well - took labor . Go to your rest . At night we 'll feast together . Most welcome home !
I 'll send my prayers with him .
Oh , ho ! Do you come near me now ? No worse man than Sir Toby to look to me . This concurs directly with the letter . She sends him on purpose that I may appear stubborn to him , for she incites me to that in the letter . " Cast thy humble slough , " says she . " Be opposite with a kinsman , surly with servants . Let thy tongue tang with arguments of state . Put thyself into the trick of singularity , " and consequently sets down the manner how : as , a sad face , a reverend carriage , a slow tongue , in the habit of some sir of note , and so forth . I have limed her , but it is Jove 's doing , and Jove make me thankful ! And when she went away now , " Let this fellow be looked to . " " Fellow ! " Not " Malvolio , " nor after my degree , but " fellow . " Why , everything adheres together , that no dram of a scruple , no scruple of a scruple , no obstacle , no incredulous or unsafe circumstance -- what can be said ? Nothing that can be can come between me and the full prospect of my hopes . Well , Jove , not I , is the doer of this , and he is to be thanked .
Bid her devise Some means to come to shrift this afternoon . And there she shall at Friar Lawrence ' cell Be shrived and married . Here is for thy pains .
Be kind and courteous to this gentleman . Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes . Feed him with apricoks and dewberries , With purple grapes , green figs , and mulberries . The honey bags steal from the humble - bees , And for night tapers crop their waxen thighs And light them at the fiery glowworms ' eyes To have my love to bed and to arise . And pluck the wings from painted butterflies To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes . Nod to him , elves , and do him courtesies .
" Odors , " " odors . "
Nobody . I myself . Farewell . Commend me to my kind lord . Oh , farewell !
Not I , my lord .
If you will then see the fruits of the sport , mark his first approach before my lady . He will come to her in yellow stockings , and ' tis a color she abhors , and cross - gartered , a fashion she detests . And he will smile upon her , which will now be so unsuitable to her disposition , being addicted to a melancholy as she is , that it cannot but turn him into a notable contempt . If you will see it , follow me .
Mistress Bianca , bless you with such grace As ' longeth to a lover 's blessed case ! Nay , I have ta'en you napping , gentle love , And have forsworn you with Hortensio .
A little , by your favor .
Now in good time here comes the duke of York .
For that he dares us to ' t .
Sweet Prince , let me go no farther to mine answer . Do you hear me , and let this count kill me . I have deceived even your very eyes . What your wisdoms could not discover , these shallow fools have brought to light , who in the night overheard me confessing to this man how Don John your brother incensed me to slander the Lady Hero , how you were brought into the orchard and saw me court Margaret in Hero 's garments , how you disgraced her when you should marry her . My villainy they have upon record , which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my shame . The lady is dead upon mine and my master 's false accusation . And , briefly , I desire nothing but the reward of a villain .
Lady , I am not well , else I should answer From a full - flowing stomach . General , Take thou my soldiers , prisoners , patrimony . Dispose of them , of me . The walls is thine . Witness the world that I create thee here My lord and master .
I am glad on ' t . ' Tis a worthy governor .
I am tame , sir . Pronounce .
God save thy Grace , King Hal , my royal Hal .
I did never see such pitiful rascals .
Boatswain !
Come unto these yellow sands , And then take hands . Curtsied when you have , and kissed The wild waves whist . Foot it featly here and there , And , sweet sprites , bear The burden . Hark , hark !
With him we may .
Thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight . Hie therefore , Robin , overcast the night . The starry welkin cover thou anon With drooping fog as black as Acheron , And lead these testy rivals so astray As one come not within another 's way . Like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue , Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong . And sometime rail thou like Demetrius . And from each other look thou lead them thus , Till o'er their brows death - counterfeiting sleep With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep . Then crush this herb into Lysander 's eye , Whose liquor hath this virtuous property To take from thence all error with his might And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight . When they next wake , all this derision Shall seem a dream and fruitless vision . And back to Athens shall the lovers wend , With league whose date till death shall never end . Whiles I in this affair do thee employ , I 'll to my queen and beg her Indian boy . And then I will her charmed eye release From monster 's view , and all things shall be peace .
O , run , Doll , run , run , good Doll . Come . --She comes blubbered . --Yea! Will you come , Doll ?
All disconsolate , With Pindarus his bondman on this hill .
One woe doth tread upon another 's heel , So fast they follow . --Your sister 's drowned , Laertes .
But that your royalty Holds idleness your subject , I should take you For idleness itself .
I pray you , father , being weak , seem so . If till the expiration of your month , You will return and sojourn with my sister , Dismissing half your train , come then to me . I am now from home , and out of that provision Which shall be needful for your entertainment .
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it , And yet I would it were to give again .
' Tis best to give him way . He leads himself .
For him I thank your grace .
Friends , Romans , countrymen , lend me your ears . I come to bury Caesar , not to praise him . The evil that men do lives after them ; The good is oft interred with their bones . So let it be with Caesar . The noble Brutus Hath told you Caesar was ambitious . If it were so , it was a grievous fault , And grievously hath Caesar answered it . Here , under leave of Brutus and the rest -- For Brutus is an honorable man ; So are they all , all honorable men -- Come I to speak in Caesar 's funeral . He was my friend , faithful and just to me . But Brutus says he was ambitious , And Brutus is an honorable man . He hath brought many captives home to Rome Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill .
We have not yet set down this day of triumph . Tomorrow , in my judgement , is too sudden , For I myself am not so well provided As else I would be , were the day prolonged .
I weigh it lightly , were it heavier .
I will make fast the doors and gild myself With some more ducats , and be with you straight .
Not once , nor twice , but twenty times you have . Go home with it and please your wife withal , And soon at supper time I 'll visit you And then receive my money for the chain .
Give me the letter , sir .
I would cure you if you would but call me Rosalind and come every day to my cote and woo me .
A mighty man of Pisa . By report I know him well . You are very welcome , sir . Take you the lute , and you the set of books . You shall go see your pupils presently . Holla , within !
Calmly , good Laertes .
By heaven , I saw my handkerchief in 's hand . O perjured woman , thou dost stone my heart , And mak 'st me call what I intend to do A murder , which I thought a sacrifice ! I saw the handkerchief .
I am a gentleman of a company .
Excellent falsehood ! Why did he marry Fulvia , and not love her ? I 'll seem the fool I am not . Antony Will be himself .
My mother had a maid called Barbary , She was in love , and he she loved proved mad And did forsake her . She had a song of " Willow , " An old thing ' twas , but it expressed her fortune And she died singing it . That song tonight Will not go from my mind . I have much to do But to go hang my head all at one side And sing it like poor Barbary . Prithee , dispatch .
What fool is this ?
But for the bloody napkin ?
Faith , mistress , then I have no cause to stay .
I 'll pheeze you , in faith .
That Cassio loves her , I do well believe ' t . That she loves him , ' tis apt and of great credit . The Moor , howbeit that I endure him not , Is of a constant , loving , noble nature , And I dare think he 'll prove to Desdemona A most dear husband . Now , I do love her too , Not out of absolute lust -- though peradventure I stand accountant for as great a sin -- But partly led to diet my revenge , For that I do suspect the lusty Moor Hath leaped into my seat . The thought whereof Doth , like a poisonous mineral , gnaw my inwards , And nothing can or shall content my soul Till I am evened with him , wife for wife . Or , failing so , yet that I put the Moor At least into a jealousy so strong That judgment cannot cure . Which thing to do , If this poor trash of Venice , whom I trace For his quick hunting , stand the putting on , I 'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip , Abuse him to the Moor in the right garb Make the Moor thank me , love me , and reward me For making him egregiously an ass And practicing upon his peace and quiet Even to madness . ' Tis here , but yet confused . Knavery 's plain face is never seen till used .
Ah , let be , let be ! Thou art The armorer of my heart . False , false . This , this .
Monster , I will kill this man . His daughter and I will be king and queen -- save our graces ! -- and Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys . --Dost thou like the plot , Trinculo ?
Come , come , Lord Mortimer ; you are as slow As hot Lord Percy is on fire to go . By this our book is drawn . We 'll but seal , And then to horse immediately .
I pray you , good Bassanio , let me know it . And if it stand , as you yourself still do , Within the eye of honor , be assured My purse , my person , my extremest means Lie all unlocked to your occasions .
I 'll follow you . I 'll lead you about a round Through bog , through bush , through brake , through brier . Sometime a horse I 'll be , sometime a hound , A hog , a headless bear , sometime a fire . And neigh , and bark , and grunt , and roar , and burn , Like horse , hound , hog , bear , fire , at every turn .
Gaze where you should , and that will clear your sight .
Where hast thou sent the king ?
Mad for thy love ?
The queen , my lord , is dead .
O , then it moved her ?
Do not think so . You shall not find it so . And God forgive them that so much have swayed Your Majesty 's good thoughts away from me .
In happy time , Iago .
We shall , my liege .
Give the word , ho , and stand .
I shall , my lord .
Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours , Makes the night morning , and the noontide night . Princes have but their titles for their glories , An outward honor for an inward toil ,
How now , interjections ? Why , then , some be of laughing , as , ah , ha , he !
It is my only suit , Provided that you weed your better judgments Of all opinion that grows rank in them That I am wise . I must have liberty Withal , as large a charter as the wind , To blow on whom I please , for so fools have . And they that are most galled with my folly , They most must laugh . And why , sir , must they so ? The " why " is plain as way to parish church : He that a fool doth very wisely hit Doth very foolishly , although he smart , Not to seem senseless of the bob . If not , The wise man 's folly is anatomized Even by the squand'ring glances of the fool . Invest me in my motley . Give me leave To speak my mind , and I will through and through Cleanse the foul body of th ' infected world , If they will patiently receive my medicine .
You sunburnt sicklemen of August weary , Come hither from the furrow and be merry . Make holiday . Your rye - straw hats put on , And these fresh nymphs encounter every one In country footing .
Let them be hunted soundly . At this hour Lie at my mercy all mine enemies . Shortly shall all my labors end , and thou Shalt have the air at freedom . For a little Follow , and do me service .
' Tis strange that they should so depart from home , And not send back my messenger .
I would have had thee there and here again Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there . --O constancy , be strong upon my side , Set a huge mountain ' tween my heart and tongue ! I have a man 's mind but a woman 's might . How hard it is for women to keep counsel ! --Art thou here yet ?
We 'll rest us , Hermia , if you think it good . And tarry for the comfort of the day .
I told him that your father was at Venice , And that you looked for him this day in Padua .
Softly and swiftly , sir , for the priest is ready .
Upon the rack , Bassanio ? Then confess What treason there is mingled with your love .
Upon my sword .
Thanks , you the valiant of this warlike isle That so approve the Moor . Oh , let the heavens Give him defense against the elements , For I have lost him on a dangerous sea .
I dare not say he lies anywhere .
Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher .
Good lords , make all the speedy haste you may .
Let us withdraw into the other room .
Now , sweet lord , You know the goodness I intend upon you . Tell me but truly -- but then speak the truth -- Do you not love my sister ?
O soft , sir ! Hold you still . I 'll fetch my sister to get her goodwill .
May this be so ?
No , my good lord . I met him back again .
I am content .
O my lord , if my duty be too bold , my love is too unmannerly .
What villain , madam ?
That nothing do but meditate on blood , To swearing and stern looks , diffused attire , And everything that seems unnatural . Which to reduce into our former favor You are assembled , and my speech entreats That I may know the let why gentle peace Should not expel these inconveniences And bless us with her former qualities .
Nor earth to me give food , nor heaven light . Sport and repose lock from me day and night . To desperation turn my trust and hope . An anchor 's cheer in prison be my scope . Each opposite that blanks the face of joy Meet what I would have well and it destroy . Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife If , once a widow , ever I be wife !
Well held out , i ' faith . No , I do not know you , nor I am not sent to you by my lady , to bid you come speak with her , nor your name is not Master Cesario , nor this is not my nose neither . Nothing that is so is so .
Tailor , I 'll pay thee for thy gown tomorrow . Take no unkindness of his hasty words . Away , I say . Commend me to thy master .
Is it even so ? Begin you to grow upon me ? I will physic your rankness and yet give no thousand crowns neither . --Holla , Dennis !
My lord ?
When the moon shone we did not see the candle .
Awake , dear heart , awake ! Thou hast slept well . Awake !
Thy mother 's son ! Like enough , and thy father 's shadow . So the son of the female is the shadow of the male . It is often so , indeed , but much of the father 's substance .
The patch is kind enough , but a huge feeder , Snail - slow in profit , and he sleeps by day More than the wildcat . Drones hive not with me . Therefore I part with him , and part with him To one that would have him help to waste His borrowed purse . Well , Jessica , go in . Perhaps I will return immediately . Do as I bid you . Shut doors after you . Fast bind , fast find . A proverb never stale in thrifty mind .
Alas , look here , my lord .
The Mousetrap . Marry , how ? Tropically . This play is the image of a murder done in Vienna . Gonzago is the duke 's name , his wife Baptista . You shall see anon . ' Tis a knavish piece of work , but what o ' that ? Your majesty and we that have free souls , it touches us not . Let the galled jade wince , our withers are unwrung .
O valiant cousin ! Worthy gentleman !
What 's the matter , dear ?
Eight wild boars roasted whole at a breakfast -- and but twelve persons there ! Is this true ?
He knows thy thought . Hear his speech but say thou nought .
Sir , a word ere you go . Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of , yea or no ?
He 'll be hanged yet , though every drop of water swear against it and gape at widest to glut him .
Kind and dear princess !
Bolts and shackles !
Farewell , good Strato . Caesar , now be still . I killed not thee with half so good a will .
Then swore he that he was a stranger here .
Hath an argosy cast away coming from Tripolis .
The tyrant custom , most grave senators , Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war My thrice - driven bed of down . I do agnize A natural and prompt alacrity I find in hardness , and do undertake These present wars against the Ottomites . Most humbly therefore bending to your state ,
By heaven , you do me wrong !
No more , Pistol . I would not have you go off here . Discharge yourself of our company , Pistol .
Why , look you how you storm ! I would be friends with you and have your love , Forget the shames that you have stained me with , Supply your present wants and take no doit Of usance for my moneys -- and you 'll not hear me ! This is kind I offer .
I cry you mercy , then , I took you for that cunning whore of Venice That married with Othello . --You , mistress , That have the office opposite to Saint Peter And keep the gate of hell !
Holla , you clown !
Fairer than tongue can name thee , let me have Some patient leisure to excuse myself .
He shall kill two of us , and men indeed , But that 's no matter . Let him kill one first . Win me and wear me ! Let him answer me . -- Come , follow me , boy . Come , sir boy , come , follow me . Sir boy , I 'll whip you from your foining fence , Nay , as I am a gentleman , I will .
' Tis noble spoken .
It seems thou want 'st breaking . Out upon thee , hind !
Not from his mouth , Had it th ' ability of life to thank you . He never gave commandment for their death . But since so jump upon this bloody question , You from the Polack wars , and you from England , Are here arrived , give order that these bodies High on a stage be placed to the view , And let me speak to th ' yet - unknowing world How these things came about . So shall you hear Of carnal , bloody , and unnatural acts , Of accidental judgments , casual slaughters , Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause , And , in this upshot , purposes mistook Fall'n on th ' inventors ' heads . All this can I Truly deliver .
What , fought you with them all ?
Not I , believe me . Thus I 'll visit her .
' Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man .
O , good sir , I do .
Peace then ! No words .
What news ?
The Duke does greet you , general , And he requires your haste - post - haste appearance , Even on the instant .
Is this your speeding ? Nay , then , good night our part .
No.
To let a fellow that will take rewards And say " God quit you ! " be familiar with My playfellow , your hand , this kingly seal And plighter of high hearts ! Oh , that I were Upon the hill of Basan , to outroar The horned herd ! For I have savage cause , And to proclaim it civilly were like A haltered neck which does the hangman thank For being yare about him .
Yet but three ? Come one more . Two of both kinds make up four . Here she comes , cursed and sad . Cupid is a knavish lad Thus to make poor females mad .
Snare , we must arrest Sir John Falstaff .
Here come the lovers , full of joy and mirth . -- Joy , gentle friends ! Joy and fresh days of love Accompany your hearts !
Macbeth ! Macbeth ! Macbeth ! --
Pardon , sir ; I have heard the word -- " phrase " call you it ? By this day , I know not the phrase , but I will maintain the word with my sword to be a soldierlike word , and a word of exceeding good command , by heaven . " Accommodated , " that is when a man is , as they say , accommodated , or when a man is being whereby he may be thought to be accommodated , which is an excellent thing .
I cannot find it . ' Tis not in the bond .
Like the old tale , my lord : " It is not so nor ' twas not so but , indeed , God forbid it should be so . "
Well demanded , wench . My tale provokes that question . Dear , they durst not , So dear the love my people bore me , nor set A mark so bloody on the business , but With colors fairer painted their foul ends . In few , they hurried us aboard a bark , Bore us some leagues to sea , where they prepared A rotten carcass of a butt , not rigged , Nor tackle , sail , nor mast . The very rats Instinctively had quit it . There they hoist us To cry to th ' sea that roared to us , to sigh To th ' winds whose pity , sighing back again , Did us but loving wrong .
Madam , I had rather --
Never make known what you have seen tonight .
At mine unworthiness , that dare not offer What I desire to give , and much less take What I shall die to want . But this is trifling , And all the more it seeks to hide itself The bigger bulk it shows . Hence , bashful cunning , And prompt me , plain and holy innocence ! I am your wife if you will marry me . If not , I 'll die your maid . To be your fellow You may deny me , but I 'll be your servant Whether you will or no .
You start away And lend no ear unto my purposes : Those prisoners you shall keep --
We 'll mutiny .
No , since .
Is Gilliams with the packet gone ?
Why , would that have mended my hair ?
Pray you do not , sir . I have watched and traveled hard . Some time I shall sleep out . The rest I 'll whistle . A good man 's fortune may grow out at heels . Give you good morrow .
Let 's follow the old earl , and get the Bedlam To lead him where he would . His roguish madness Allows itself to any thing .
If the duke continue these favors towards you , Cesario , you are like to be much advanced . He hath known you but three days , and already you are no stranger .
Friar , I must entreat your pains , I think .
Let 's briefly put on manly readiness , And meet i ' th ' hall together .
Here lies the east . Doth not the day break here ?
Wherefore , bold peasant , Darest thou support a published traitor ? Hence , Lest that th ' infection of his fortune take Like hold on thee . Let go his arm .
He does well to commend it himself . There are no tongues else for 's turn .
Yet hear me , countrymen . Yet hear me speak .
We have not made good preparation .
I 'll not be strucken , my lord .
Before and apace .
Knock , knock , knock ! Who 's there ? Faith , here 's an English tailor come hither for stealing out of a French hose . Come in , tailor . Here you may roast your goose .
This is the excellent foppery of the world that when we are sick in fortune -- often the surfeit of our own behavior -- we make guilty of our disasters the sun , the moon , and the stars , as if we were villains by necessity , fools by heavenly compulsion , knaves , thieves , and treachers by spherical predominance , drunkards , liars , and adulterers by an enforced obedience of planetary influence , and all that we are evil in by a divine thrusting - on . An admirable evasion of whoremaster man , to lay his goatish disposition to the charge of a star ! My father compounded with my mother under the dragon 's tail and my nativity was under Ursa Major , so that it follows I am rough and lecherous . Fut , I should have been that I am , had the maidenliest star in the firmament twinkled on my bastardizing . Edgar --
Be witness to me , O thou blessed moon , When men revolted shall upon record Bear hateful memory , poor Enobarbus did Before thy face repent .
Let the doors be shut upon him , that he may play the fool no where but in 's own house . Farewell .
Well , go with me and be not so discomfited . Proceed in practice with my younger daughter . She 's apt to learn and thankful for good turns . Signior Petruchio , will you go with us , Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you ?
Now knock when I bid you , sirrah villain .
O Harry , thou hast robbed me of my youth . I better brook the loss of brittle life Than those proud titles thou hast won of me . They wound my thoughts worse than thy sword my flesh . But thoughts , the slave of life , and life , time 's fool , And time , that takes survey of all the world , Must have a stop . O , I could prophesy , But that the earthy and cold hand of death Lies on my tongue . No , Percy , thou art dust , And food for --
If I were fair , Thisbe , I were only thine .
How doth the King ?
Horatio says ' tis but our fantasy And will not let belief take hold of him Touching this dreaded sight twice seen of us . Therefore I have entreated him along With us to watch the minutes of this night , That if again this apparition come He may approve our eyes and speak to it .
Or to be naked with her friend in bed An hour or more , not meaning any harm ?
O Jesu , I have heard the Prince tell him , I know not how oft , that that ring was copper !
O vassal ! Miscreant !
Nay , that 's certain . They that dally nicely with words may quickly make them wanton .
Nay , do not pause ; for I did kill King Henry -- But ' twas thy beauty that provoked me . Nay , now dispatch ; ' twas I that stabbed young Edward -- But ' twas thy heavenly face that set me on .
A foolish heart , that I leave here behind .
Now , fair befall thee , good Petruchio ! The wager thou hast won , and I will add Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns , Another dowry to another daughter , For she is changed as she had never been .
Ha , ha , ha , most excellent , i ' faith ! Things that are mouldy lack use . Very singular good , in faith . Well said , Sir John , very well said .
What , my dear Lady Disdain ! Are you yet living ?
Oh , he 's drunk , Sir Toby , an hour agone . His eyes were set at eight i ' the morning .
Have you importuned him by any means ?
It is not well done , mark you now , to take the tales out of my mouth ere it is made and finished . I speak but in the figures and comparisons of it . As Alexander killed his friend Cleitus , being in his ales and his cups , so also Harry Monmouth , being in his right wits and his good judgments , turned away the fat knight with the great - belly doublet ; he was full of jests , and gipes and knaveries , and mocks --I have forgot his name .
She give it Cassio ? No , alas , I found it And I did give ' t my husband .
See where they come . We will behold his death .
I cannot well perceive how , unless you should give me your doublet and stuff me out with straw . I beseech you , good Sir John , let me have five hundred of my thousand .
Slave , I have set my life upon a cast , And I will stand the hazard of the die . I think there be six Richmonds in the field ; Five have I slain today instead of him . A horse , a horse , my kingdom for a horse !
Away ! They 'll kill us .
That you do love me , I am nothing jealous . What you would work me to , I have some aim . How I have thought of this and of these times I shall recount hereafter . For this present , I would not , so with love I might entreat you , Be any further moved . What you have said I will consider , what you have to say I will with patience hear , and find a time Both meet to hear and answer such high things . Till then , my noble friend , chew upon this : Brutus had rather be a villager Than to repute himself a son of Rome Under these hard conditions as this time Is like to lay upon us .
Prithee , say on . The setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim A matter from thee , and a birth indeed Which throes thee much to yield .
But a harsh hearing when women are froward .
Why , whither shall we go ?
I would I were at home .
Do you know them ?
Marry , that he had received a thousand ducats of Don John for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully .
This was well done , my bird . Thy shape invisible retain thou still . The trumpery in my house , go bring it hither For stale to catch these thieves .
Thanks , good my countryman .
Here comes more news .
That may be , sir , when I may be a wife .
If then true lovers have been ever crossed , It stands as an edict in destiny . Then let us teach our trial patience , Because it is a customary cross , As due to love as thoughts and dreams and sighs , Wishes and tears , poor fancy 's followers .
Ha ? Let me see her . Out , alas ! She 's cold . Her blood is settled , and her joints are stiff . Life and these lips have long been separated . Death lies on her like an untimely frost Upon the sweetest flower of all the field .
Brother , I advise you to the best . Go armed . I am no honest man if there be any good meaning towards you . I have told you what I have seen and heard -- but faintly , nothing like the image and horror of it . Pray you , away .
How , how I pray you ? You amaze me . I would have thought her spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection .
Madam !
I thank you , sir . That 's all .
Let the garden door be shut , and leave me to my hearing .
Oh , let us hence . I stand on sudden haste .
I thank thee for that gird , good Tranio .
Let all the rest give place .
Is it new and old too ? How may that be ?
What , I do bring good news !
Ay , ' tis strong , and it does indifferent well in a dun-colored stock . Shall we set about some revels ?
I tell you 'tis not very well . I will make myself known to Desdemona . If she will return me my jewels I will give over my suit and repent my unlawful solicitation . If not , assure yourself I will seek satisfaction of you .
Tush ! Never tell me . I take it much unkindly That thou , Iago , who hast had my purse As if the strings were thine , shouldst know of this .
Give me your hands . Let grief and sorrow still embrace his heart That doth not wish you joy .
Who could be out , being before his beloved mistress ?
Here , man . I am at thy elbow .
Walking from watch to watch , from tent to tent ? Let him cry , " Praise and glory on his head ! " For forth he goes and visits all his host , Bids them good morrow with a modest smile , And calls them brothers , friends , and countrymen . Upon his royal face there is no note How dread an army hath enrounded him , Nor doth he dedicate one jot of color Unto the weary and all - watched night , But freshly looks and overbears attaint With cheerful semblance and sweet majesty , That every wretch , pining and pale before , Beholding him , plucks comfort from his looks . A largess universal , like the sun , His liberal eye doth give to everyone , Thawing cold fear , that mean and gentle all Behold , as may unworthiness define , A little touch of Harry in the night . And so our scene must to the battle fly , Where , Oh , for pity , we shall much disgrace , With four or five most vile and ragged foils Right ill-disposed in brawl ridiculous , The name of Agincourt . Yet sit and see , Minding true things by what their mock'ries be .
It falls right . You have been talked of since your travel much -- And that in Hamlet 's hearing -- for a quality Wherein , they say , you shine . Your sum of parts Did not together pluck such envy from him As did that one , and that , in my regard , Of the unworthiest siege .
To know my deed , ' twere best not know myself .
Caesar , and that , having in Sicily Sextus Pompeius spoiled , we had not rated him His part o ' th ' isle . Then does he say he lent me Some shipping , unrestored . Lastly , he frets That Lepidus of the triumvirate Should be deposed , and , being , that we detain All his revenue .
True . And a goose for his discretion .
Why , what art thou ?
Indeed , my lord , it is a most absolute and excellent horse .
Poor fellow never joyed since the price of oats rose . It was the death of him .
To what effect ?
He says for Brutus ' sake He finds himself beholding to us all .
Forbear to sleep the nights , and fast the days ; Compare dead happiness with living woe ; Think that thy babes were sweeter than they were , And he that slew them fouler than he is . Bettering thy loss makes the bad causer worse . Revolving this will teach thee how to curse .
My lord , I 'll steep this letter in sack and make him eat it .
It would seem strange unto him when he waked .
Give us the place alone . We will hear this divinity .
Ay -- but not yet to die !
He will , an if he live to be a man .
They were suborned . Malcolm and Donalbain , the king 's two sons , Are stol'n away and fled , which puts upon them Suspicion of the deed .
I will follow you .
Hard , hard . --O filthy traitor !
This Doll Tearsheet should be some road .
Well , the truth is , Sir John , you live in great infamy .
His horses go about .
Why , what wouldst thou do there before I go ?
There 's not a man I meet but doth salute me As if I were their well-acquainted friend , And every one doth call me by my name . Some tender money to me ; some invite me ; Some other give me thanks for kindnesses ; Some offer me commodities to buy . Even now a tailor called me in his shop And showed me silks that he had bought for me , And therewithal took measure of my body . Sure , these are but imaginary wiles , And lapland sorcerers inhabit here .
I will live in thy heart , die in thy lap , and be buried in thy eyes -- and moreover , I will go with thee to thy uncle' s .
Have you had quiet guard ?
I would your Grace would take me with you . Whom means your Grace ?
Verona 's summer hath not such a flower .
Of it own color too .
that claims marriage of me , i could find in my heart to stay here still , and turn witch .
Nay then , I 'll run . What mean you , madam ? I have made no fault .
One speak for both . What would you ?
Wait close . I will not see him .
I have ' t in my nose too .
But age with his stealing steps Hath clawed me in his clutch , And hath shipped me into the land As if I had never been such .
But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading .
A proper stripling , and an amorous .
Go , go . You are a counterfeit cowardly knave . Will you mock at an ancient tradition begun upon an honorable respect and worn as a memorable trophy of predeceased valor , and dare not avouch in your deeds any of your words ? I have seen you gleeking and galling at this gentleman twice or thrice . You thought because he could not speak English in the native garb , he could not therefore handle an English cudgel . You find it otherwise , and henceforth let a Welsh correction teach you a good English condition . Fare you well .
The business she hath broached in the state Cannot endure my absence .
Rogue , thou hast lived too long .
I did not kill your husband .
I am sorry then . You have so lost a father That you must lose a husband .
Ay , in the catalogue ye go for men , As hounds and greyhounds , mongrels , spaniels , curs , Shoughs , water - rugs , and demi - wolves are clept All by the name of dogs . The valued file Distinguishes the swift , the slow , the subtle , The housekeeper , the hunter , every one According to the gift which bounteous nature Hath in him closed , whereby he does receive Particular addition , from the bill That writes them all alike . And so of men . Now , if you have a station in the file , Not i ' th ' worst rank of manhood , say ' t , And I will put that business in your bosoms , Whose execution takes your enemy off , Grapples you to the heart and love of us , Who wear our health but sickly in his life , Which in his death were perfect .
The motion 's good indeed and be it so . -- Petruchio , I shall be your ben venuto .
I know not , madam .
Yes , he is dead . How wilt thou do for a father ?
Away with the dotard ! To the jail with him !
What , you wrestle tomorrow before the new duke ?
Let him alone . I 'll follow him no more with bootless prayers . He seeks my life . His reason well I know . I oft delivered from his forfeitures Many that have at times made moan to me . Therefore he hates me .
With what addition ?
The king doth keep his revels here tonight . Take heed the queen come not within his sight . For Oberon is passing fell and wrath Because that she , as her attendant hath A lovely boy stolen from an Indian king . She never had so sweet a changeling . And jealous Oberon would have the child Knight of his train , to trace the forests wild . But she perforce withholds the loved boy , Crowns him with flowers , and makes him all her joy .
Hark you , Guildenstern , and you too -- at each ear a hearer . That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling-clouts
Come on , come on , come on . Give me your hand , sir , give me your hand , sir . An early stirrer , by the rood . And how doth my good cousin Silence ?
What , drawn , and talk of peace ? I hate the word , As I hate hell , all Montagues , and thee . Have at thee , coward !
That shall you know hereafter .
Thou wilt be like a lover presently And tire the hearer with a book of words . If thou dost love fair Hero , cherish it , And I will break with her and with her father , And thou shalt have her . Was ' t not to this end That thou began 'st to twist so fine a story ?
Well , I will meet you , so I may have good cheer .
Great Glamis , worthy Cawdor , Greater than both , by the all - hail hereafter , Thy letters have transported me beyond This ignorant present , and I feel now The future in the instant .
Come down .
Look , sir , I bleed .
That light we see is burning in my hall . How far that little candle throws his beams ! So shines a good deed in a naughty world .
Why the wrong is but a wrong i ' th ' world , and having the world for your labor , ' tis a wrong in your own world , and you might quickly make it right .
I would kiss before I spoke .
In the wars . And that may you be bold to say in your foolery .
Farewell , my lord .
Well - a - day that you were , sir .
Than my Lord Hastings no man might be bolder . His Lordship knows me well , and loves me well . -- My lord of Ely , when I was last in Holborn I saw good strawberries in your garden there ; I do beseech you , send for some of them .
O , look upon me , sir , And hold your hands in benediction o'er me . No , sir , you must not kneel .
Unmannered dog , stand thou when I command ! -- Advance thy halberd higher than my breast , Or by Saint Paul I 'll strike thee to my foot And spurn upon thee , beggar , for thy boldness .
And here I stand . -- Judge , my masters .
When a man 's verses cannot be understood nor a man 's good wit seconded with the forward child , understanding , it strikes a man more dead than a great reckoning in a little room . Truly , I would the gods had made thee poetical .
Your reason ?
But there is never a fair woman has a true face .
Where is my lady ?
Yet " banished " ? Hang up philosophy ! Unless philosophy can make a Juliet , Displant a town , reverse a prince 's doom , It helps not , it prevails not . Talk no more .
I say I will make him eat some part of my leek , or I will peat his pate four days . --Bite , I pray you . It is good for your green wound and your ploody coxcomb .
No , by this heavenly light !
I am glad of this , for now I shall have reason To show the love and duty that I bear you With franker spirit . Therefore , as I am bound , Receive it from me . I speak not yet of proof . Look to your wife , observe her well with Cassio . Wear your eyes thus , not jealous nor secure . I would not have your free and noble nature Out of self - bounty be abused . Look to ' t . I know our country disposition well . In Venice they do let God see the pranks They dare not show their husbands . Their best conscience Is not to leave ' t undone , but keep't unknown .
No further , sir .
Who 's gone this morning ?
Still so constant , lord .
Our master and mistress seeks you . Come away , away .
O Thou , whose captain I account myself , Look on my forces with a gracious eye . Put in their hands thy bruising irons of wrath , That they may crush down with a heavy fall The usurping helmets of our adversaries ! Make us thy ministers of chastisement , That we may praise thee in the victory ! To thee I do commend my watchful soul , Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes . Sleeping and waking , O , defend me still ! Sleeps
He is drowned in the brook . Look but in , and you shall see him .
I frown upon him , yet he loves me still .
Here 's one comes in his shirt , with light and weapons .
Glasses , glasses , is the only drinking . And for thy walls , a pretty slight drollery , or the story of the Prodigal or the German hunting in waterwork is worth a thousand of these bed - hangers and these fly - bitten tapestries . Let it be ten pound , if thou canst . Come , an ' twere not for thy humors , there 's not a better wench in England . Go wash thy face , and draw the action . Come , thou must not be in this humor with me . Dost not know me ? Come , come , I know thou wast set on to this .
It is Othello 's pleasure , our noble and valiant general , that , upon certain tidings now arrived , importing the mere perdition of the Turkish fleet , every man put himself into triumph : some to dance , some to make bonfires , each man to what sport and revels his addiction leads him . For besides these beneficial news , it is the celebration of his nuptial . So much was his pleasure should be proclaimed . All offices are open , and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five till the bell have told eleven . Bless the isle of Cyprus and our noble general Othello !
My lord , I beseech you give me leave to go through Gloucestershire , and , when you come to court , stand my good lord , pray , in your good report .
Evermore weeping for your cousin 's death ? What , wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears ? An if thou couldst , thou couldst not make him live . Therefore , have done . Some grief shows much of love , But much of grief shows still some want of wit .
Master , there is a bark of Epidamnum That stays but till her owner comes aboard , And then , sir , she bears away . Our fraughtage , sir , I have conveyed aboard , and I have bought The oil , the balsamum and aqua vitae . The ship is in her trim ; the merry wind Blows fair from land . They stay for naught at all But for their owner , master , and yourself .
As the ox hath his bow , sir , the horse his curb , and the falcon her bells , so man hath his desires ; and as pigeons bill , so wedlock would be nibbling .
What will you do ? Let 's not consort with them . To show an unfelt sorrow is an office Which the false man does easy . I 'll to England .
Ah , mocker , that 's the dog 's name . R is for the --No , I know it begins with some other letter , and she hath the prettiest sententious of it , of you and rosemary , that it would do you good to hear it .
Tilly - vally , Sir John , ne'er tell me . And your ancient swaggerer comes not in my doors . I was before Master Tisick , the debuty t ' other day , and , as he said to me -- ' twas no longer ago than Wednesday last , i ' good faith -- " Neighbour Quickly , " says he --Master Dumb , our minister , was by then -- " Neighbour Quickly , " says he , " receive those that are civil , for , " said he , " you are in an ill name . " Now he said so , I can tell whereupon . " For , " says he , " you are an honest woman , and well thought on . Therefore take heed what guests you receive . Receive , " says he , " no swaggering
My life , sir ! how , I pray ? For that goes hard .
And I am witness with her that she did .
Oh , yes , into a thousand similes . First , for his weeping into the needless stream : " Poor deer , " quoth he , " thou mak 'st a testament As worldlings do , giving thy sum of more To that which had too much . " Then , being there alone , Left and abandoned of his velvet friend , " 'Tis right , " quoth he . " Thus misery doth part The flux of company . " Anon a careless herd , Full of the pasture , jumps along by him And never stays to greet him . " Ay , " quoth Jaques , " Sweep on , you fat and greasy citizens . ' Tis just the fashion . Wherefore do you look Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there ? " Thus most invectively he pierceth through The body of the country , city , court , Yea , and of this our life , swearing that we Are mere usurpers , tyrants , and what 's worse , To fright the animals and to kill them up In their assigned and native dwelling place .
Why , it stood by her . She has light by her continually . ' Tis her command .
Nay , an thou pass upon me , I 'll no more with thee . Hold , there 's expenses for thee .
Why , then let 's home again . Come , sirrah , let 's away .
Good King , that must approve the common saw , Thou out of heaven 's benediction comest To the warm sun . Approach , thou beacon to this underglobe , That by thy comfortable beams I may Peruse this letter . Nothing almost sees miracles But misery . I know ' tis from Cordelia , Who hath most fortunately been informed Of my obscured course and " shall find time From this enormous state , seeking to give Losses their remedies . " All weary and o'erwatched , Take vantage , heavy eyes , not to behold This shameful lodging . Fortune , good night . Smile once more . Turn thy wheel .
Poor bird ! Thou ' dst never fear the net nor lime , The pitfall nor the gin .
Deny to speak with me ? They are sick ? They are weary ? They have traveled all the night?- -mere fetches , ay ! The images of revolt and flying off . Fetch me a better answer .
The king his master needs must take it ill , That he , so slightly valued in his messenger , Should have him thus restrained .
Go , Pindarus , get higher on that hill . My sight was ever thick . Regard Titinius , And tell me what thou notest about the field .
Oh ! Oh ! Oh !
Save him , save him !
wars , and whether I shall ever see thee again or no , there is nobody cares .
Never trust me , then . And by all means stir on the youth to an answer . I think oxen and wainropes cannot hale them together . For Andrew , if he were opened and you find so much blood in his liver as will clog the foot of a flea , I 'll eat the rest of the anatomy .
Is all things ready for the royal time ?
I am transformed , master , am I not ?
Which is that adversary ?
Prithee , peace .
By all the gods that Romans bow before , I here discard my sickness ! Soul of Rome , Brave son derived from honorable loins , Thou , like an exorcist , hast conjured up My mortified spirit . Now bid me run , And I will strive with things impossible , Yea , get the better of them . What 's to do ?
Wife , children , servants , all that could be found .
Signior Gremio , came you from the church ?
The gods withhold me ! Shall I do that which all the Parthian darts , Though enemy , lost aim and could not ?
Tomorrow dinner , then ?
Good gentleman , go your gait , and let poor volk pass . An ' chud ha ' bin zwaggered out of my life , ' twould not ha ' bin zo long as ' tis by a vortnight . Nay , come not near th ' old man . Keep out , che vor ' ye , or I 'se try whether your costard or my ballow be the harder . ' Chill be plain with you .
O Harry 's wife , triumph not in my woes ! God witness with me , I have wept for thine .
We have not spoke us yet of torchbearers .
A sister I bequeath you whom no brother Did ever love so dearly . Let her live To join our kingdoms and our hearts , and never Fly off our loves again !
My master through his art foresees the danger That you , his friend , are , and sends me forth -- For else his project dies -- to keep them living . While you here do snoring lie , Open - eyed conspiracy His time doth take . If of life you keep a care , Shake off slumber and beware . Awake , awake !
Hie to your chamber . I 'll find Romeo To comfort you . I wot well where he is . Hark ye , your Romeo will be here at night . I 'll to him . He is hid at Lawrence ' cell .
At " closes in the consequence , " at " 'friend , ' Or so " and " 'gentleman . ' "
He is then a giant to an ape ; but then is an ape a doctor to such a man .
Ha ! Goneril with a white beard ? Ha , Regan ? They flattered me like a dog and told me I had white hairs in my beard ere the black ones were there . To say " Ay " and " No " to everything that I said " Ay " and " No " to was no good divinity . When the rain came to wet me once , and the wind to make me chatter , when the thunder would not peace at my bidding -- there I found ' em , there I smelt ' em out . Go to , they are not men o ' their words . They told me I was everything . ' Tis a lie , I am not ague-proof .
Are yet two Romans living such as these ? --The last of all the Romans , fare thee well ! It is impossible that ever Rome Should breed thy fellow . --Friends , I owe more tears To this dead man than you shall see me pay . --I shall find time , Cassius , I shall find time . --Come , therefore , and to Thasos send his body . His funerals shall not be in our camp , Lest it discomfort us . --Lucillius , come . -- And come , young Cato . Let us to the field . --Labio and Flavio , set our battles on . -- 'Tis three o'clock , and , Romans , yet ere night We shall try fortune in a second fight .
Enough to purchase what you have made known .
There , sir , stop . Let us not burden our remembrances with A heaviness that 's gone .
Follow me not . Stay here .
I will do ' t . And for that purpose I 'll anoint my sword . I bought an unction of a mountebank , So mortal that , but dip a knife in it , Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare , Collected from all simples that have virtue Under the moon , can save the thing from death That is but scratched withal . I 'll touch my point With this contagion , that if I gall him slightly It may be death .
But I know none , and therefore am no beast .
I say she shall . --And first begin with her .
Good morrow , carriers . What 's o'clock ?
I have given over . I will speak no more . Do what you will ; your wisdom be your guide .
To do this is within the compass of man 's wit , and therefore I will attempt the doing it .
Neighbors and friends , though bride and bridegroom wants For to supply the places at the table , You know there wants no junkets at the feast .
Now , Master Sheriff , what is your will with me ?
No more light answers . Let our officers Have notice what we purpose . I shall break The cause of our expedience to the Queen And get her leave to part . For not alone The death of Fulvia , with more urgent touches , Do strongly speak to us , but the letters too Of many our contriving friends in Rome Petition us at home . Sextus Pompeius Hath given the dare to Caesar and commands The empire of the sea . Our slippery people , Whose love is never linked to the deserver Till his deserts are past , begin to throw Pompey the Great and all his dignities Upon his son , who -- high in name and power , Higher than both in blood and life -- stands up For the main soldier , whose quality , going on , The sides o ' th ' world may danger . Much is breeding Which , like the courser 's hair , hath yet but life , And not a serpent 's poison . Say our pleasure , To such whose place is under us , requires Our quick remove from hence .
' Tis unnatural , Even like the deed that 's done . On Tuesday last , A falcon , tow'ring in her pride of place , Was by a mousing owl hawked at and killed .
How " wear the garland " ? Dost thou mean the crown ?
My being in Egypt , Caesar , what was ' t to you ?
O the Lord , that Sir John were come ! I would make this a bloody day to somebody . But I pray God the fruit of her womb might miscarry .
It is a quarrel most unnatural To be revenged on him that loveth thee .
Good madam , let me see your face .
Sir , you show great mercy if you give him life After the taste of much correction .
Why Romeo , art thou mad ?
A great perturbation in nature , to receive at once the benefit of sleep , and do the line &gt; effects of watching . In this slumbery agitation , besides her walking and other actual performances , what , at any time , have you heard her say ?
Why , how now , kinsman ? Wherefore storm you so ?
To vouch this is no proof , Without more wider and more overt test Than these thin habits and poor likelihoods Of modern seeming do prefer against him .
That truth should be silent I had almost forgot .
Give me your pardon , sir . I 've done you wrong . But pardon ' t , as you are a gentleman . This presence knows , And you must needs have heard , how I am punished With sore distraction . What I have done , That might your nature , honor , and exception Roughly awake , I here proclaim was madness . Was ' t Hamlet wronged Laertes ? Never Hamlet . If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away , And when he 's not himself does wrong Laertes , Then Hamlet does it not . Hamlet denies it . Who does it , then ? His madness . If't be so , Hamlet is of the faction that is wronged . His madness is poor Hamlet 's enemy . Sir , in this audience ,
A miracle ! Here 's our own hands against our hearts . Come , I will have thee , but , by this light , I take thee for pity .
All which time Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers To them for you .
Against some part of Poland .
Mass , thou sayest true . The Prince once set a dish of applejohns before him and told him there were five more Sir Johns and , putting off his hat , said " I will now take my leave of these six dry , round , old , withered knights . " It angered him to the heart . But he hath forgot that .
Presently ?
Marry , sir , ' tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers . Therefore he that cannot lick his fingers goes not with me .
Well , sir , I 'll bring you to our master Lear And leave you to attend him . Some dear cause Will in concealment wrap me up awhile . When I am known aright you shall not grieve Lending me this acquaintance . I pray you , go Along with me .
A victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full numbers . I find here that Don Pedro hath bestowed much honor on a young Florentine called Claudio .
If thou speak 'st false , Upon the next tree shall thou hang alive Till famine cling thee . If thy speech be sooth , I care not if thou dost for me as much . I pull in resolution and begin To doubt th ' equivocation of the fiend That lies like truth . " Fear not , till Birnam wood Do come to Dunsinane " ; and now a wood Comes toward Dunsinane . --Arm , arm , and out ! -- If this which he avouches does appear , There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here . I ' gin to be aweary of the sun , And wish th ' estate o ' th ' world were now undone . -- Ring the alarum-bell ! --Blow , wind ! Come , wrack ! At least we 'll die with harness on our back .
O , good my lord , you have lost a friend indeed , And I dare swear you borrow not that face Of seeming sorrow ; it is sure your own .
I pray you , uncle , give me this dagger .
' Tis very good . I must be circumstanced .
Come hither . I am here .
Thus do I ever make my fool my purse . For I mine own gained knowledge should profane If I would time expend with such a snipe But for my sport and profit . I hate the Moor , And it is thought abroad that ' twixt my sheets He 's done my office . I know not if ' t be true , But I , for mere suspicion in that kind , Will do as if for surety . He holds me well . The better shall my purpose work on him . Cassio 's a proper man . Let me see now ,
What , Grumio !
Go bid the priests do present sacrifice And bring me their opinions of success .
Oh , they take the part of a better wrestler than myself .
--So far afoot , I shall be weary , love .
And to that end we wished your Lordship here T ' avoid the censures of the carping world .
Son , I 'll be your half Bianca comes .
I will hear Cassius and compare their reasons When severally we hear them rendered .
Your plantain leaf is excellent for that .
Give me your hand before this holy friar . I am your husband , if you like of me .
Refuse not , mighty lord , this proffered love .
For what good turn ?
We talk with goblins , owls , and sprites : If we obey them not , this will ensue : They 'll suck our breath , or pinch us black and blue .
Safely stowed .
I 'll go no more : I am afraid to think what I have done ; Look on ' t again I dare not .
Give me thy hand . Thou shalt have a share in our purchase , as I am a true man .
Lo now , if it lay in their hands to make me a cuckold , they would make themselves whores but they 'd do ' t .
O , good my lord , tax not so bad a voice To slander music anymore than once .
Of fighting men they have full threescore thousand .
And yet I fear you , for you 're fatal then When your eyes roll so . Why I should fear I know not , Since guiltiness I know not . But yet I feel I fear .
Why , Hal , thou knowest , as thou art but man , I dare , but as thou art Prince , I fear thee as I fear the roaring of a lion 's whelp .
Why , no , for she hath broke the lute to me . I did but tell her she mistook her frets , And bowed her hand to teach her fingering , When , with a most impatient devilish spirit , " 'Frets ' call you these ? " quoth she . " I 'll fume with them ! " And with that word she struck me on the head , And through the instrument my pate made way ,
I would I were invisible , to catch the strong fellow by the leg .
What , must I hold a candle to my shames ? They in themselves , good sooth , are too too light . Why , ' tis an office of discovery , love . And I should be obscured .
That I 'll try .
I 'll tell you in your ear .
I do much wonder that one man , seeing how much another man is a fool when he dedicates his behaviors to love , will , after he hath laughed at such shallow follies in others , become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love -- and such a man is Claudio . I have known when there was no music with him but the drum and the fife , and now had he rather hear the tabor and the pipe . I have known when he would have walked ten mile afoot to see a good armor , and now will he lie ten nights awake carving the fashion of a new doublet . He was wont to speak plain and to the purpose , like an honest man and a soldier , and now is he turned orthography ; his words are a very fantastical banquet , just so many strange dishes . May I be so converted and see with these eyes ? I cannot tell ; I think not .
Come , high or low ; Thyself and office deftly show !
Go , girl , seek happy nights to happy days .
Yes , ' tis Emilia . -- By and by . --She 's dead . -- ' Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio 's death , The noise was high . Ha ! No more moving ? Still as the grave . Shall she come in ? Were ' t good ? I think she stirs again --No. What 's best to do ? If she come in , she 'll sure speak to my wife -- My wife ! my wife ! what wife ? I have no wife . Oh , insupportable ! Oh , heavy hour ! Methinks it should be now a huge eclipse Of sun and moon , and that th ' affrighted globe Should yawn at alteration .
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded . But with a crafty madness keeps aloof When we would bring him on to some confession Of his true state .
Or stole it , rather .
Where the dead body is bestowed , my lord , We cannot get from him .
Upon the talk of the poisoning ?
O matter and impertinency mixed ! Reason in madness !
Where 's my fool , ho ? I think the world 's asleep .
What manner of man ?
Thus Rosalind of many parts By heavenly synod was devised , Of many faces , eyes , and hearts To have the touches dearest prized . Heaven would that she these gifts should have And I to live and die her slave .
Never , Iago . Like to the Pontic sea , Whose icy current and compulsive course Ne'er keeps retiring ebb but keeps due on To the Propontic and the Hellespont , Even so my bloody thoughts with violent pace Shall ne'er look back , ne'er ebb to humble love Till that a capable and wide revenge Swallow them up . Now , by yon marble heaven , In the due reverence of a sacred vow I here engage my words .
James Tyrrel , and your most obedient subject .
And will you , being a man of your breeding , be married under a bush like a beggar ? Get you to church , and have a good priest that can tell you what marriage is . This fellow will but join you together as they join wainscot . Then one of you will prove a shrunk panel and , like green timber , warp , warp .
Up and down , up and down , I will lead them up and down . I am feared in field and town . Goblin , lead them up and down . Here comes one .
Then bid me kill myself , and I will do it .
This nothing 's more than matter .
Davy , Davy , Davy , Davy , let me see , Davy , let me see , Davy , let me see . Yea , marry , William cook , bid him come hither . --Sir John , you shall not be excused .
Well , I say no . And therefore , for assurance , Let 's each one send unto his wife ; And he whose wife is most obedient To come at first when he doth send for her , Shall win the wager which we will propose .
My liege , They are not yet come back . But I have spoke With one that saw him die , who did report That very frankly he confessed his treasons , Implored your highness ' pardon , and set forth A deep repentance . Nothing in his life Became him like the leaving it . He died As one that had been studied in his death To throw away the dearest thing he owed As ' twere a careless trifle .
No , good Captain Pistol , not here , sweet captain .
One minded like the weather , most unquietly .
Who dares receive it other , As we shall make our griefs and clamor roar Upon his death ?
By love , that first did prompt me to inquire . He lent me counsel and I lent him eyes . I am no pilot . Yet , wert thou as far As that vast shore washed with the farthest sea , I would adventure for such merchandise .
O Cassio , whence came this ? This is some token from a newer friend ! To the felt absence now I feel a cause . Is ' t come to this ? Well , well .
So is the dearest o ' th ' loss .
Satan , avoid ! I charge thee , tempt me not .
Do all men kill the things they do not love ?
If ? Thou protector of this damned strumpet , Talk 'st thou to me of " ifs " ? Thou art a traitor -- Off with his head . Now by Saint Paul I swear I will not dine until I see the same . -- Lovell and Ratcliffe , look that it be done . -- The rest that love me , rise and follow me .
Why , for that too .
How now ? Who 's there ?
What lady is that which doth enrich the hand Of yonder knight ?
I shall do well . The people love me , and the sea is mine . My powers are crescent , and my auguring hope Says it will come to th ' full . Mark Antony In Egypt sits at dinner , and will make No wars without doors . Caesar gets money where He loses hearts . Lepidus flatters both , Of both is flattered , but he neither loves , Nor either cares for him .
Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to the doctor . For , for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far more choler .
By the Mass , I could anger her to th ' heart . She was then a bona roba . Doth she hold her own well ?
No , my good lord . But as you did command I did repel his fetters and denied His access to me .
At supper .
Let him be Caesar !
My hopes do shape him for the governor .
I dare not confess that lest I should compare with him in excellence , but to know a man well were to know himself .
Go to . I say you shall .
Nay , I am for all waters .
And , for an earnest of a greater honor , He bade me , from him , call thee thane of Cawdor : In which addition , hail , most worthy thane , For it is thine .
Are not you Sir John Falstaff ?
Here comes the Countess . Now heaven walks on earth . But for thee , fellow . Fellow , thy words are madness : Three months this youth hath tended upon me ; But more of that anon . Take him aside .
No , indeed , sir ; the Lady Olivia has no folly . She will keep no fool , sir , till she be married , and fools are as like husbands as pilchards are to herrings ; the husband 's the bigger : I am indeed not her fool , but her corrupter of words .
O my lord !
Cousin of Buckingham , a word with you . They move aside Catesby hath sounded Hastings in our business And finds the testy gentleman so hot As he will lose his head ere give consent His master 's child , as worshipfully he terms it , Shall lose the royalty of England 's throne .
I 'm sorry they offend you , heartily . Yes faith , heartily .
I am sorry for thee . Thou art come to answer A stony adversary , an inhuman wretch Uncapable of pity , void and empty From any dram of mercy .
We shall all follow , cousin .
Nay , faith , let me not play a woman . I have a beard coming .
No , my lord , I saw nothing .
Ho , ho , ho ! Coward , why comest thou not ?
What life is in that to be the death of this marriage ?
Which , of he or Adrian , for a good wager , first begins to crow ?
How fares my Kate ? What , sweeting , all amort ?
Treachery ! Seek it out .
And then he drew a dial from his poke And , looking on it with lackluster eye , Says very wisely , " It is ten o'clock . Thus we may see , " quoth he , " how the world wags . ' Tis but an hour ago since it was nine , And after one hour more ' twill be eleven . And so from hour to hour we ripe and ripe , And then from hour to hour we rot and rot , And thereby hangs a tale . " When I did hear The motley fool thus moral on the time , My lungs began to crow like chanticleer That fools should be so deep - contemplative , And I did laugh sans intermission An hour by his dial . O noble fool ! A worthy fool ! Motley 's the only wear .
Wouldst thou have thy head broken ?
Go , carry Sir John Falstaff to the Fleet . Take all his company along with him .
How does my royal lord ? How fares your majesty ?
She creeps . Her motion and her station are as one . She shows a body rather than a life , A statue than a breather .
Down , strumpet !
By my faith , sir , but it is ; never anybody saw it but his lackey . ' Tis a hooded valor , and when it appears , it will bate .
Alice , tu as ete en Angleterre , et tu parles bien le langage .
How now , what art thou ?
About the Mount Misena .
Fortune pursue thee !
Both he loves .
O , my royal father !
A thousand times good night !
Vex not his prescience . Be attentive .
My lord , whoever journeys to the prince , For God 's sake let not us two at home . For by the way I 'll sort occasion , As index to the story we late talked of , To part the queen 's proud kindred from the prince .
You knew -- none so well , none so well as you -- of my daughter 's flight .
Tut , I have lost myself . I am not here . This is not Romeo . He 's some other where .
Zounds , hold your peace .
It would have much amazed you .
Why does the Prince love him so then ?
Good Lord ! You use this dalliance to excuse Your breach of promise to the Porpentine . I should have chid you for not bringing it , But , like a shrew , you first begin to brawl .
We 'll not run , Monsieur Monster .
Come , come , elder brother , you are too young in this .
I would thou hadst been son to some man else . The world esteemed thy father honorable , But I did find him still mine enemy . Thou shouldst have better pleased me with this deed Hadst thou descended from another house . But fare thee well . Thou art a gallant youth . I would thou hadst told me of another father .
Oh , woe the day !
He has a cloud in 's face .
But is he often thus ?
Ay , of a snail , for though he comes slowly , he carries his house on his head -- a better jointure , I think , than you make a woman . Besides , he brings his destiny with him .
Foul shame upon you , you have all moved mine .
With his eyes full of anger .
So holy and so perfect is my love , And I in such a poverty of grace , That I shall think it a most plenteous crop To glean the broken ears after the man That the main harvest reaps . Loose now and then A scattered smile , and that I 'll live upon .
Is he come ?
Now the condition . The King of Naples , being an enemy To me inveterate , hearkens my brother 's suit , Which was that he , in lieu o ' th ' premises Of homage and I know not how much tribute , Should presently extirpate me and mine Out of the dukedom , and confer fair Milan With all the honors on my brother . Whereon , A treacherous army levied , one midnight Fated to th ' purpose did Antonio open The gates of Milan , and , i ' th ' dead of darkness , The ministers for th ' purpose hurried thence Me and thy crying self .
Neighbors , God speed .
Go , Eros , send his treasure after . Do it . Detain no jot , I charge thee . Write to him -- I will subscribe -- gentle adieus and greetings . Say that I wish he never find more cause To change a master . Oh , my fortunes have Corrupted honest men ! Dispatch . --Enobarbus!
I know her answer .
Not in the legions Of horrid hell can come a devil more damned In evils to top Macbeth .
To ' t .
Come on then . Down , and swear .
This is the penthouse under which Lorenzo Desired us to make stand .
A man may break a word with you , sir , and words are but wind , Ay , and break it in your face , so he break it not behind .
Fairest Cordelia , that art most rich being poor , Most choice forsaken , and most loved despised ! Thee and thy virtues here I seize upon , Be it lawful I take up what 's cast away . Gods , gods ! ' Tis strange that from their cold 'st neglect My love should kindle to inflamed respect . -- Thy dowerless daughter , King , thrown to my chance , Is queen of us , of ours , and our fair France . Not all the dukes of waterish Burgundy Can buy this unprized precious maid of me . -- Bid them farewell , Cordelia , though unkind . Thou losest here , a better where to find .
Nothing ?
You advise me well .
How , my lord , I may be censured , that nature thus gives way to loyalty , something fears me to think of .
A Daniel come to judgment , yea , a Daniel ! -- O wise young judge , how I do honor thee !
The king is full of grace and fair regard .
Most noble brother , you have done me wrong .
And the business you have broached here cannot be without you , especially that of Cleopatra 's , which wholly depends on your abode .
Why , what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern ?
Come , shelter , shelter ! I have removed Falstaff 's horse , and he frets like a gummed velvet .
For my part , I had rather bear with you than bear you . Yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you , for I think you have no money in your purse .
Show me , show me .
That he hath not .
Fie , fie , Gratiano ! Where are all the rest ? ' Tis nine o'clock . Our friends all stay for you . No masque tonight . The wind is come about . Bassanio presently will go aboard . I have sent twenty out to seek for you .
If this were true , then should I know this secret . I grant I am a woman , but withal A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife . I grant I am a woman , but withal A woman well - reputed , Cato 's daughter . Think you I am no stronger than my sex , Being so fathered and so husbanded ? Tell me your counsels . I will not disclose ' em . I have made strong proof of my constancy , Giving myself a voluntary wound Here in the thigh . Can I bear that with patience , And not my husband 's secrets ?
Enough , Captain . You have astonished him .
What , old acquaintance , could not all this flesh Keep in a little life ? Poor Jack , farewell . I could have better spared a better man . O , I should have a heavy miss of thee If I were much in love with vanity . Death hath not struck so fat a deer today , Though many dearer in this bloody fray . Emboweled will I see thee by and by ; Till then in blood by noble Percy lie .
And shall , sir . Give 's your hand .
With the same ' havior that your passion bears Goes on my master 's grief .
Nay , let me alone for swearing .
' Tis but so , I warrant .
Yea , this man 's brow , like to a title leaf , Foretells the nature of a tragic volume . So looks the strand whereon the imperious flood Hath left a witness 'd usurpation . -- Say , Morton , didst thou come from Shrewsbury ?
I prithee , pretty youth , let me be better acquainted with thee .
The smell whereof shall breed a plague in France . Mark , then , abounding valor in our English , That being dead , like to the bullet 's crazing , Break out into a second course of mischief , Killing in relapse of mortality . Let me speak proudly : tell the constable We are but warriors for the working day ; Our gayness and our gilt are all besmirched With rainy marching in the painful field . There 's not a piece of feather in our host -- Good argument , I hope , we will not fly -- And time hath worn us into slovenry . But , by the Mass , our hearts are in the trim , And my poor soldiers tell me , yet ere night They 'll be in fresher robes , or they will pluck The gay new coats o'er the French soldiers ' heads And turn them out of service . If they do this , As , if God please , they shall , my ransom then Will soon be levied . Herald , save thou thy labor . Come thou no more for ransom , gentle herald . They shall have none , I swear , but these my joints , Which , if they have , as I will leave ' em them , Shall yield them little . Tell the constable .
Here 's Decius Brutus . He shall tell them so .
I thank thee for thy care and honest pains .
But is all this for your father ?
Be clamorous , and leap all civil bounds , Rather than make unprofited return .
Not mad , but bound more than a madman is , Shut up in prison , kept without my food , Whipped and tormented and --Good e' en , good fellow .
Thy case , dear friend , Shall be my precedent . As thou got 'st Milan , I 'll come by Naples . Draw thy sword . One stroke Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest . And I the king shall love thee .
Fall not a tear , I say . One of them rates All that is won and lost . Give me a kiss .
Ay , and Wall too .
Oh , the more angel she , And you the blacker devil !
Talk not of dying . I am out of fear Of death or death 's hand for this one half year .
Caesar , I shall .
Are you a married man or a bachelor ?
She is a virtuous and a reverend lady . It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong .
Imagination of some great exploit Drives him beyond the bounds of patience .
Salutation and greeting to you all .
She hath good leave .
By my troth , it is well said . " For himself to mar , " quoth he ? Gentlemen , can any of you tell me where I may find the young Romeo ?
Tranio , let 's go . One thing more rests , that thyself execute , to make one among these wooers . If thou ask me why , sufficeth my reasons are both good and weighty .
This is Othello 's ancient , as I take it .
Faith , the priest was good enough , for all the old gentleman 's saying .
Yet better thus , and known to be contemned , Than still contemned and flattered . To be worst , The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune Stands still in esperance , lives not in fear . The lamentable change is from the best ; The worst returns to laughter . Welcome , then , Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace ! The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst Owes nothing to thy blasts .
Ah , he is young , and his minority Is put unto the trust of Richard Gloucester , A man that loves not me nor none of you .
Here I have a pilot 's thumb , Wrecked as homeward he did come .
That I can keep your counsel and not mine own . Besides , to be demanded of a sponge ! What replication should be made by the son of a king ?
Nay , he 's a flower . In faith , a very flower .
I am sorry for thee , friend . ' Tis the duke 's pleasure , Whose disposition , all the world well knows , Will not be rubbed nor stopped . I 'll entreat for thee .
How now ? A madman ? Why , thou peevish sheep , What ship of Epidamnum stays for me ?
" Besides , you waste the treasure of your time with a foolish knight -- "
Holds it true , sir , that the Duke of Cornwall was so slain ?
With adorations , fertile tears , With groans that thunder love , with sighs of fire .
In your own kingdom , sir .
Not a poor boy , sir , but the rich Jew 's man that would , sir , as my father shall specify --
For his particular I 'll receive him gladly , But not one follower .
Oh , help me there !
Honest gentleman , I know not your breeding .
Be patient , for you shall remain with us . --Now forth , Lord Constable and princes all , And quickly bring us word of England 's fall .
This day I breathed first . Time is come round , And where I did begin , there shall I end . My life is run his compass . Sirrah , what news ?
Ha ! Wherefore ?
No , truly , but in friendly recompense .
Hail .
Prithee , hold thy peace . This is not the way . Do you not see you move him ? Let me alone with him .
Francis !
Lucius !
As gaming , my lord ?
I am much bound to you .
And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt , So he dissolved , and showers of oaths did melt . I will go tell him of fair Hermia 's flight . Then to the wood will he tomorrow night Pursue her . And for this intelligence If I have thanks , it is a dear expense . But herein mean I to enrich my pain , To have his sight thither and back again .
Ainsi dis - je : " d' elbow , de nick , et de sin . " Comment appelez-vous le pied et la robe ?
such poor people , saying that ere long they should call me madam ? And didst thou not kiss me and bid me fetch thee thirty shillings ? I put thee now to thy book - oath . Deny it if thou canst .
There is a river in Macedon , and there is also , moreover , a river at Monmouth . It is called Wye at Monmouth , but it is out of my prains what is the name of the other river . But ' tis all one ; ' tis alike as my fingers is to my fingers , and there is salmons in both . If you mark Alexander 's life well , Harry of Monmouth 's life is come after it indifferent well , for there is figures in all things . Alexander , God knows and you know , in his rages and his furies and his wraths and his cholers and his moods and his displeasures and his indignations , and also being a little intoxicates in his prains , did , in his ales and his angers , look you , kill his best friend , Cleitus .
O , how this mother swells up toward my heart ! Hysterica passio , down , thou climbing sorrow . Thy element 's below . --Where is this daughter ?
Nay , come , I pray you , sir , give me the chain . Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman , And I , to blame , have held him here too long .
Know you any , count ?
Truly , I think they are .
Better opinion , better confirmation , For all the soil of the achievement goes With me into the earth . It seemed in me But as an honor snatched with boist'rous hand , And I had many living to upbraid My gain of it by their assistances , Which daily grew to quarrel and to bloodshed , Wounding supposed peace . All these bold fears Thou see 'st with peril I have answered , For all my reign hath been but as a scene Acting that argument . And now my death Changes the mood , for what in me was purchased Falls upon thee in a more fairer sort . So thou the garland wear 'st successively . Yet though thou stand 'st more sure than I could do , Thou art not firm enough , since griefs are green , And all my friends , which thou must make thy friends , Have but their stings and teeth newly ta'en out , By whose fell working I was first advanced And by whose power I well might lodge a fear To be again displaced ; which to avoid , I cut them off and had a purpose now To lead out many to the Holy Land , Lest rest and lying still might make them look Too near unto my state . Therefore , my Harry , Be it thy course to busy giddy minds With foreign quarrels ; that action , hence borne out , May waste the memory of the former days . More would I , but my lungs are wasted so That strength of speech is utterly denied me . How I came by the crown , O God forgive , And grant it may with thee in true peace live .
Basta , content thee , for I have it full . We have not yet been seen in any house , Nor can we be distinguished by our faces For man or master . Then it follows thus : Thou shalt be master , Tranio , in my stead , Keep house and port and servants as I should . I will some other be , some Florentine , Some Neapolitan , or meaner man of Pisa . ' Tis hatched , and shall be so . Tranio , at once Uncase thee . Take my colored hat and cloak .
Pray you , no more of this . ' Tis like the howling of Irish wolves against the moon . I will help you , if I can . I would love you if I could . --Tomorrow meet me all together . I will marry you if ever I marry woman , and I 'll be married tomorrow . I will satisfy you if ever I satisfy man , and you shall be married tomorrow . I will content you , if what pleases you contents you , and you shall be married tomorrow . As you love Rosalind , meet . As you love Phoebe , meet . --And as I love no woman , I 'll meet . So fare you well . I have left you commands .
Are you so formal , sir ? Well , I must wait . And watch withal , for , but I be deceived , Our fine musician groweth amorous .
You are a fool . --You , niece , provide yourself . If you outstay the time , upon mine honor And in the greatness of my word , you die .
I have already .
Health , peace , and happiness to my royal father .
O , what men dare do ! What men may do ! What men daily do , not knowing what they do !
How came he mad ?
Away , you rascally Althea 's dream , away !
How now ! Rain within doors , and none abroad ? How doth the King ?
Is not , sir , my doublet as fresh as the first day I wore it ? I mean , in a sort .
Hang him , swaggering rascal ! Let him not come hither . It is the foul - mouthed 'st rogue in England .
Signior Hortensio , I have often heard Of your entire affection to Bianca , And since mine eyes are witness of her lightness , I will with you , if you be so contented , Forswear Bianca and her love for ever .
Thine 's too heavy to mount .
I 'll yet follow The wounded chance of Antony , though my reason Sits in the wind against me .
One that was a woman , sir , but , rest her soul , she 's dead .
You do look , my son , in a moved sort , As if you were dismayed . Be cheerful , sir . Our revels now are ended . These our actors , As I foretold you , were all spirits and Are melted into air , into thin air .
A thousand thanks , Signior Gremio . Welcome , good Cambio . But , gentle sir , methinks you walk like a stranger . May I be so bold to know the cause of your coming ?
Why , therefore fire , for I have caught extreme cold . Where 's the cook ? Is supper ready , the house trimmed , rushes strewed , cobwebs swept , the servingmen in their new fustian , their white stockings , and every officer his wedding garment on ? Be the Jacks fair within , the Jills fair without , the carpets laid , and everything in order ?
Why then , ' tis good to be a post .
O God !
I partly guess , for I have loved ere now .
What trumpet 's that ?
I am amazed and know not what to say .
Write down Prince John a villain . Why , this is flat perjury , to call a prince 's brother villain .
Sigh no more , ladies , sigh no more , Men were deceivers ever , One foot in sea and one on shore , To one thing constant never . Then sigh not so , but let them go , And be you blithe and bonny , Converting all your sounds of woe Into Hey , nonny nonny . Sing no more ditties , sing no mo Of dumps so dull and heavy . The fraud of men was ever so , Since summer first was leavy . Then sigh not so , but let them go And be you blithe and bonny , Converting all your sounds of woe Into Hey , nonny nonny .
Heigh , heigh , the devil rides upon a fiddlestick . What 's the matter ?
Glamis thou art , and Cawdor ; and shalt be What thou art promised . Yet do I fear thy nature ; It is too full o ' th ' milk of human kindness To catch the nearest way : thou wouldst be great , Art not without ambition , but without The illness should attend it . What thou wouldst highly , That wouldst thou holily ; wouldst not play false , And yet wouldst wrongly win . Thou'ld 'st have , great Glamis , That which cries , " Thus thou must do , " if thou have it , And that which rather thou dost fear to do , Than wishest should be undone . Hie thee hither , That I may pour my spirits in thine ear And chastise with the valor of my tongue All that impedes thee from the golden round , Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem To have thee crowned withal .
If he be not in love with some woman , there is no believing old signs . He brushes his hat o ' mornings . What should that bode ?
In this same interlude it doth befall That I , one Snout by name , present a wall . And such a wall , as I would have you think , That had in it a crannied hole , or chink , Through which the lovers , Pyramus and Thisbe , Did whisper often very secretly . This loam , this roughcast , and this stone doth show That I am that same wall . The truth is so . And this the cranny is , right and sinister , Through which the fearful lovers are to whisper .
My lord , I 'll hit him now .
Nay , rather let me have it as you are a false thief .
Alas , he is too young . Yet he looks successfully .
And when she speaks , is it not an alarum to love ?
Then , masters , look to see a troublous world .
Will I live ?
What 's a drunken man like , fool ?
I kiss thy hand , but not in flattery , Caesar , Desiring thee that Publius Cimber may Have an immediate freedom of repeal .
How now , you secret , black , and midnight hags ? What is ' t you do ?
By ruffian lust should be contaminate ! Wouldst thou not spit at me , and spurn at me , And hurl the name of husband in my face , And tear the stained skin off my harlot brow , And from my false hand cut the wedding ring , And break it with a deep - divorcing vow ? I know thou canst , and therefore see thou do it . I am possessed with an adulterate blot ; My blood is mingled with the crime of lust ; For if we too be one , and thou play false , I do digest the poison of thy flesh , Being strumpeted by thy contagion . Keep then fair league and truce with thy true bed , I live disstained , thou undishonored .
' Sblood , but you 'll not hear me ! If ever I did dream of such a matter , abhor me .
A good old commander and a most kind gentleman . I pray you , what thinks he of our estate ?
I warrant you , my lord .
Be by , good madam , when we do awake him . I doubt not of his temperance .
The king is kind , and well we know the king Knows at what time to promise , when to pay . My father and my uncle and myself Did give him that same royalty he wears , And when he was not six - and - twenty strong , Sick in the world 's regard , wretched and low , A poor unminded outlaw sneaking home , My father gave him welcome to the shore ; And when he heard him swear and vow to God He came but to be Duke of Lancaster , To sue his livery , and beg his peace , With tears of innocency and terms of zeal , My father , in kind heart and pity moved , Swore him assistance and performed it too . Now when the lords and barons of the realm Perceived Northumberland did lean to him , The more and less came in with cap and knee , Met him in boroughs , cities , villages , Attended him on bridges , stood in lanes , Laid gifts before him , proffered him their oaths , Gave him their heirs as pages , followed him Even at the heels in golden multitudes . He presently , as greatness knows itself , Steps me a little higher than his vow Made to my father while his blood was poor Upon the naked shore at Ravenspurgh , And now forsooth takes on him to reform Some certain edicts and some strait decrees That lie too heavy on the commonwealth , Cries out upon abuses , seems to weep Over his country 's wrongs , and by this face , This seeming brow of justice , did he win The hearts of all that he did angle for , Proceeded further -- cut me off the heads Of all the favourites that the absent King In deputation left behind him here When he was personal in the Irish war .
The sun doth gild our armor . Up , my lords .
How far your eyes may pierce I cannot tell . Striving to better , oft we mar what 's well .
Your voice shall be as strong as any man 's In the disposing of new dignities .
I hope so , Lepidus . Thus we are agreed . I crave our composition may be written And sealed between us .
Break any breaking here , and I 'll break your knave 's pate .
Throw me in the channel ? I 'll throw thee in the channel . Wilt thou , wilt thou , thou bastardly rogue?- -Murder , murder ! -- Ah , thou honeysuckle villain , wilt thou kill God 's officers and the King 's ? Ah , thou honeyseed rogue , thou art a honeyseed , a man - queller , and a woman - queller .
Never , never . --Come , away , away ! We 'll burn his body in the holy place , And with the brands fire the traitors ' houses . Take up the body .
By the eighth hour . Is that the uttermost ?
Good my lord , soothe him . Let him take the fellow .
How long hath this possession held the man ?
O good Horatio , I 'll take the ghost 's word for a thousand pound . Didst perceive ?
A maid , and stuffed ! There 's goodly catching of cold .
Never afflict yourself to know more of it , But let his disposition have that scope That dotage gives it .
He were an excellent man that were made just in the midway between him and Benedick . The one is too like an image and says nothing , and the other too like my lady 's eldest son , evermore tattling .
What mean 'st thou by that ? " Mend " me , thou saucy fellow ?
Why , he 's a devil , a devil , a very fiend .
Do you see nothing there ?
Oh , here he is . Lay hand upon him . --Sir , Your most dear daughter --
O sir , pardon me !
I have been up this hour , awake all night . Know I these men that come along with you ?
Her honor is an essence that 's not seen , They have it very oft that have it not . But for the handkerchief --
What , shall I stab him as he sleeps ?
Sir John , the Lord bless you . God prosper your affairs . God send us peace . At your return , visit our house . Let our old
Erroneous vassals , the great King of kings Hath in the tables of His law commanded That thou shalt do no murder . Will thou then Spurn at His edict and fulfill a man 's ? Take heed , for He holds vengeance in His hand To hurl upon their heads that break His law .
Sir , know you this glove ?
And what may follow , To try a larger fortune .
Shylock , albeit I neither lend nor borrow By taking nor by giving of excess , Yet to supply the ripe wants of my friend , I 'll break a custom . Is he yet possessed How much ye would ?
True , worthy Banquo . He is full so valiant , And in his commendations I am fed ; It is a banquet to me . --Let 's after him , Whose care is gone before to bid us welcome : It is a peerless kinsman .
What is he whose grief Bears such an emphasis , whose phrase of sorrow Conjures the wandering stars , and makes them stand Like wonder - wounded hearers ? This is I , Hamlet the Dane .
That drop of blood that 's calm proclaims me bastard , Cries " Cuckold ! " to my father , brands the " harlot " Even here between the chaste unsmirched brow Of my true mother .
Caesar must think When one so great begins to rage , he 's hunted Even to falling . Give him no breath , but now Make boot of his distraction . Never anger Made good guard for itself .
We will meet , and there we may rehearse most obscenely and courageously . Take pains . Be perfect . Adieu .
Then you live about her waist , or in the middle of her favors ?
You can fool no more money out of me at this throw . If you will let your lady know I am here to speak with her , and bring her along with you , it may awake my bounty further .
I see a cherub that sees them . But come , for England . Farewell , dear mother .
My lord , my lord !
I , sir ? I never saw her till this time .
Will you enforce me to a world of cares ? Call them again . I am not made of stones , But penetrable to your kind entreaties , Albeit against my conscience and my soul .
This will I tell my master .
Stand !
That now I will have -- that 's the humor of it .
O wherefore , Nature , didst thou lions frame ? Since lion vile hath here deflowered my dear , Which is -- no , no -- which was the fairest dame That lived , that loved , that liked , that looked with cheer . Come , tears , confound ! Out , sword , and wound ! The pap of Pyramus --
Prithee come , will you ?
' Tis no less , I tell you , for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon .
I will then give it you soundly .
I 'll kiss thy foot . I 'll swear myself thy subject .
Tell him he shall not speak with me .
Here , my lord .
Pardon me , Caius Cassius . The enemies of Caesar shall say this ; Then , in a friend , it is cold modesty .
Infirm of purpose ! Give me the daggers . The sleeping and the dead Are but as pictures . ' Tis the eye of childhood That fears a painted devil . If he do bleed , I 'll gild the faces of the grooms withal , For it must seem their guilt .
Alack , I had forgot . ' Tis so concluded on .
Could you not take some occasion without giving ?
There is a thing within my bosom tells me That no conditions of our peace can stand .
I am more proud to be Sir Rowland 's son , His youngest son , and would not change that calling To be adopted heir to Frederick .
And I 'll sleep .
He cannot be such a monster --
How now ? Is he dead ?
O , my poor brother ! And so perchance may he be .
I pray thee , good Mercutio , let 's retire . The day is hot ; the Capulets , abroad ; And if we meet we shall not 'scape a brawl , For now , these hot days , is the mad blood stirring .
What is ' t o'clock ?
But that it would be double - dealing , sir , I would you could make it another .
Save yourself , my lord . The ocean , overpeering of his list , Eats not the flats with more impiteous haste Than young Laertes , in a riotous head , O ' erbears your officers . The rabble call him " lord " And -- as the world were now but to begin , Antiquity forgot , custom not known , The ratifiers and props of every word -- They cry , " Choose we ! Laertes shall be king ! " Caps , hands , and tongues applaud it to the clouds : " Laertes shall be king , Laertes king ! "
He dreams . I know they are in Rome together Looking for Antony . But all the charms of love , Salt Cleopatra , soften thy wanned lip ! Let witchcraft join with beauty , lust with both . Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts , Keep his brain fuming . Epicurean cooks , Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite , That sleep and feeding may prorogue his honor Even till a Lethe 'd dulness --
So is he now in execution Of any bold or noble enterprise , However he puts on this tardy form . This rudeness is a sauce to his good wit , Which gives men stomach to digest his words With better appetite .
As I stood here below , methought his eyes Were two full moons . He had a thousand noses , Horns whelked and waved like the enraged sea . It was some fiend . Therefore , thou happy father , Think that the clearest gods , who make them honors Of men 's impossibilities , have preserved thee .
Let them be in the hands --
Where hast thou been , sister ?
Nay , I beseech you , sir , be not out with me . Yet , if you be out , sir , I can mend you .
That we have , that we have , that we have . In faith , Sir John , we have . Our watchword was " Hem , boys . " Come , let 's to dinner ; come , let 's to dinner . Jesus , the days that we have seen ! Come , come .
And how does your content Tender your own good fortune ?
My voice is ragged . I know I cannot please you .
It was the lark , the herald of the morn , No nightingale . Look , love , what envious streaks Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east . Night 's candles are burnt out , and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops . I must be gone and live , or stay and die .
He 's worth no more . They say he parted well and paid his score . And so , God be with him ! Here comes newer comfort .
I am all the daughters of my father 's house , And all the brothers too -- and yet I know not . Sir , shall I to this lady ?
How is it , general ? Have you not hurt your head ?
What , art a heathen ? How dost thou understand the Scripture ? The Scripture says Adam digged . Could he dig without arms ? I 'll put another question to thee . If thou answerest me not to the purpose , confess thyself --
Half the heart of Caesar , worthy Maecenas ! My honorable friend , Agrippa .
Quoit him down , Bardolph , like a shove - groat shilling . Nay , an he do nothing but speak nothing , he shall be nothing here .
Ah , for our father , for our dear lord Clarence !
We will go walk a little in the orchard , And then to dinner . You are passing welcome , And so I pray you all to think yourselves .
Speakest thou from thy heart ?
True . Those that were your father 's enemies Have steeped their galls in honey , and do serve you With hearts create of duty and of zeal .
Ay , so I fear . The more is my unrest .
None of my lord 's ring ? Why , he sent her none . I am the man . If it be so , as ' tis , Poor lady , she were better love a dream . Disguise , I see thou art a wickedness , Wherein the pregnant enemy does much . How easy is it for the proper false In women 's waxen hearts to set their forms ! Alas , our frailty is the cause , not we , For such as we are made of , such we be . How will this fadge ? My master loves her dearly , And I , poor monster , fond as much on him , And she , mistaken , seems to dote on me . What will become of this ? As I am man , My state is desperate for my master 's love . As I am woman , now , alas the day , What thriftless sighs shall poor Olivia breathe ! O time , thou must untangle this , not I. It is too hard a knot for me to untie !
Of York , is it not ?
But what prevention ?
What is the matter , lady ?
What woman in the city do I name , When that I say the city - woman bears The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders ? Who can come in and say that I mean her , When such a one as she such is her neighbor ? Or what is he of basest function That says his bravery is not of my cost , Thinking that I mean him , but therein suits His folly to the mettle of my speech ? There then . How then , what then ? Let me see wherein My tongue hath wronged him . If it do him right , Then he hath wronged himself . If he be free , Why then my taxing like a wild goose flies Unclaimed of any man . But who comes here ?
What he hath lost , noble Macbeth hath won .
Is there such an one ?
I am hers . But oh , how oddly will it sound that I Must ask my child forgiveness !
Nay , lay thee down and roar , For thou hast killed the sweetest innocent That e' er did lift up eye .
You must leave this .
The king , sir --
No , nor I neither , but most wonderful that she should so dote on Signor Benedick , whom she hath in all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor .
Touched you the bastardy of Edward 's children ?
O God , did Romeo 's hand shed Tybalt 's blood ?
Came this from Hamlet to her ?
' Tis well done . My friends and brethren in these great affairs , I must acquaint you that I have received New - dated letters from Northumberland , Their cold intent , tenor , and substance , thus : Here doth he wish his person , with such powers As might hold sortance with his quality , The which he could not levy ; whereupon He is retired , to ripe his growing fortunes , To Scotland , and concludes in hearty prayers That your attempts may overlive the hazard And fearful melting of their opposite .
O worthiest cousin , The sin of my ingratitude even now Was heavy on me . Thou art so far before That swiftest wing of recompense is slow To overtake thee . Would thou hadst less deserved , That the proportion both of thanks and payment Might have been mine ! Only I have left to say , More is thy due than more than all can pay .
You think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes .
Who knocks ?
Fare you well , gentlemen .
Send for him , good uncle .
Good my lord , enter here .
And I have found Demetrius like a jewel , Mine own , and not mine own .
O slow - winged turtle , shall a buzzard take thee ?
You have done well by water .
Yes , other men have ill luck too . Antonio , as I heard in Genoa --
Most kind messenger , Say to great Caesar this in deputation : I kiss his conqu'ring hand . Tell him I am prompt To lay my crown at 's feet , and there to kneel . Tell him , from his all - obeying breath I hear The doom of Egypt .
To what end , my lord ?
You saw my master wink and laugh upon you ?
None but the fool , who labors to outjest His heart - struck injuries .
Who 's there ? Whose noise is this that ones on murder ?
A perilous gash , a very limb lopped off ! And yet , in faith , it is not . His present want Seems more than we shall find it . Were it good To set the exact wealth of all our states All at one cast ? To set so rich a main On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour ? It were not good , for therein should we read The very bottom and the soul of hope , The very list , the very utmost bound Of all our fortunes .
Nay , the man hath no wit that cannot , from the rising of the lark to the lodging of the lamb , vary deserved praise on my palfrey . It is a theme as fluent as the sea . Turn the sands into eloquent tongues , and my horse is argument for them all . ' Tis a subject for a sovereign to reason on , and for a sovereign 's sovereign to ride on , and for the world , familiar to us and unknown , to lay apart their particular functions and wonder at him . I once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus : " Wonder of nature -- "
My lord ?
His bed shall seem a school , his board a shrift , I 'll intermingle everything he does With Cassio 's suit . Therefore be merry , Cassio , For thy solicitor shall rather die Than give thy cause away .
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero , and hath withdrawn her father to break with him about it . The ladies follow her , and but one visor remains .
Yet leave our cousin Katherine here with us . She is our capital demand , comprised Within the forerank of our articles .
Ha !
Make you a wholesome answer . My wit 's diseased . But , sir , such answer as I can make , you shall command . Or , rather , as you say , my mother . Therefore no more but to the matter . My mother , you say --
I am bound to your niece , sir . I mean , she is the list of my voyage .
Why , there spoke a king . Lack nothing , be merry . One knocks at the door within Look who 's at door there , ho . Who knocks ?
I have heard of your paintings too , well enough . God has given you one face and you make yourselves another . You jig and amble , and you lisp , you nickname God 's creatures and make your wantonness your ignorance . Go to , I 'll no more on ' t . It hath made me mad . I say , we will have no more marriages . Those that are married already , all but one , shall live . The rest shall keep as they are . To a nunnery , go .
In faith , I will go .
The trumpets have sounded twice .
Do , I prithee , but yet have the grace to consider that tears do not become a man .
A n't please your Majesty , ' tis the gage of one that I should fight withal , if he be alive .
What , for a counter , would I do but good ?
' Faith , no , as you may season it in the charge . You must not put another scandal on him That he is open to incontinency . That 's not my meaning . But breathe his faults so quaintly That they may seem the taints of liberty , The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind , A savageness in unreclaimed blood , Of general assault .
Ah ha ! Come , some music ! Come , the recorders ! For if the king like not the comedy , Why then , belike , he likes it not , perdy . Come , some music !
No , truly not , although until last night I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow .
How dost thou feel thyself now ?
See you here , sir ?
Die and be damned , and figo for thy friendship !
But who did bid thee join with us ?
If I mistake not , thou art Harry Monmouth .
That it did , sir , i ' th ' very throat on me ; but I requited him for his lie , and , I think , being too strong for him , though he took up my legs sometime , yet I made a shift to cast him .
Farewell . I 'll grow a talker for this gear .
Not so , my lord .
O dear Phoebe , If ever -- as that ever may be near -- You meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy , Then shall you know the wounds invisible That love 's keen arrows make .
You lie up to the hearing of the gods . But if there be nor ever were one such , It 's past the size of dreaming . Nature wants stuff To vie strange forms with fancy , yet t ' imagine An Antony were nature 's piece ' gainst fancy , Condemning shadows quite .
Ay , ay , Antipholus , look strange and frown . Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects . I am not Adriana , nor thy wife . The time was once when thou unurged wouldst vow That never words were music to thine ear , That never object pleasing in thine eye , That never touch well welcome to thy hand , That never meat sweet - savored in thy taste , Unless I spake , or looked , or touched , or carved to thee . How comes it now , my husband , O , how comes it That thou art thus estranged from thyself ? " Thyself " I call it , being strange to me , That , undividable , incorporate , Am better than thy dear self 's better part . Ah , do not tear away thyself from me ! For know , my love , as easy mayest thou fall A drop of water in the breaking gulf , And take unmingled thence that drop again Without addition or diminishing , As take from me thyself and not me too . How dearly would it touch thee to the quick , Shouldst thou but hear I were licentious And that this body , consecrate to thee ,
Health to my sovereign , and new happiness Added to that that I am to deliver . Prince John your son doth kiss your Grace 's hand . Mowbray , the Bishop Scroop , Hastings , and all Are brought to the correction of your law . There is not now a rebel 's sword unsheathed But peace puts forth her olive everywhere . The manner how this action hath been borne Here at more leisure may your Highness read With every course in his particular .
Thou toad , thou toad , where is thy brother Clarence ? And little Ned Plantagenet his son ?
No , not a grize . For ' tis a vulgar proof That very oft we pity enemies .
What ho , Horatio !
They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that . I will speak to this fellow . --Whose grave 's this , sirrah ?
Great Master of France , the brave Sir Guichard Dauphin ; John , duke of Alencon ; Anthony , duke of Brabant , The brother of the duke of Burgundy , And Edward , duke of Bar . Of lusty earls : Grandpre and Roussi , Faulconbridge and Foix , Beaumont and Marle , Vaudemont and Lestrale . Here was a royal fellowship of death . Where is the number of our English dead ?
' Twill be a good way , and tomorrow the wrestling is .
What wilt thou do , thou peevish officer ? Hast thou delight to see a wretched man Do outrage and displeasure to himself ?
Signor Antonio ?
I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than you can the getting up of the Negro 's belly . The Moor is with child by you , Launcelot .
Why , as a woodcock to mine own springe , Osric . I am justly killed with mine own treachery .
Done . The wager ?
We cannot be here and there too . Cheerly , boys . Be brisk 0awhile , and the longer liver take all .
You say you do not know the lady 's mind . Uneven is the course . I like it not .
I shall forget , to have thee still stand there , Remembering how I love thy company .
I remember him well , and I remember him worthy of thy praise .
A dry jest , sir .
All this I see , and I see that the fashion wears out more apparel than the man . But art not thou thyself giddy with the fashion too , that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion ?
A fortnight and odd days .
You would all this time have proved there is no time for all things .
O seigneur ! Le jour est perdu , tout est erdu !
Great and increasing . But by sea he is an absolute master .
Come , wait upon him . Lead him to my bower . The moon methinks looks with a watery eye . And when she weeps , weeps every little flower , Lamenting some enforced chastity . Tie up my love 's tongue . Bring him silently .
A piece of ice . If thou doubt it , thou mayst slide from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run but my head and my neck . A fire , good Curtis .
So are you , sweet , Even in the lovely garnish of a boy . But come at once , For the close night doth play the runaway , And we are stayed for at Bassanio 's feast .
I pray , sir , tell me , is it possible That love should of a sudden take such hold ?
Caesar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey .
Will either of you bear me a challenge to him ?
Which , for they yet glance by and scarcely bruise , This sword of mine shall give them instant way , Where they shall rest for ever . --Trumpets , speak !
You are welcome . Take your place . Are you acquainted with the difference That holds this present question in the court ?
O , teach me how I should forget to think !
Thou whoreson zed , thou unnecessary letter ! --My lord , if you will give me leave , I will tread this unbolted villain into mortar and daub the wall of a jakes with him . --Spare my gray beard , you wagtail ?
Alack , what trouble Was I then to you !
' Faith , that was not so well . Yet would I knew That stroke would prove the worst !
Conrade , I say !
Ay , if the devil tempt you to do good .
This oily rascal is known as well as Paul 's . Go call him forth .
No such matter . I will not sort you with the rest of my servants , for , to speak to you like an honest man , I am most dreadfully attended . But in the beaten way of friendship , what make you at Elsinore ?
He did ; myself did hear it .
Good . I will expect you .
Hang out our banners on the outward walls . The cry is still " They come ! " Our castle 's strength Will laugh a siege to scorn . Here let them lie Till famine and the ague eat them up . Were they not forced with those that should be ours , We might have met them dareful , beard to beard , And beat them backward home .
A single thing , as I am now , that wonders To hear thee speak of Naples . He does hear me , And that he does I weep . Myself am Naples , Who with mine eyes , never since at ebb , beheld The king my father wracked .
A dog of that house shall move me to stand . I will take the wall of any man or maid of Montague 's .
Prithee , away .
Had it pleased heaven To try me with affliction , had they rained All kinds of sores and shames on my bare head , Steeped me in poverty to the very lips , Given to captivity me and my utmost hopes , I should have found in some place of my soul A drop of patience . But , alas , to make me
A noble duke , in nature As in name .
I go , and it is done . The bell invites me . Hear it not , Duncan , for it is a knell That summons thee to heaven or to hell .
My lord .
Carry me to the jail ?
By'r Lady , thirty years .
An you will not be answered with reason , I must die .
He 'll go along o'er the wide world with me . Leave me alone to woo him . Let 's away And get our jewels and our wealth together , Devise the fittest time and safest way To hide us from pursuit that will be made After my flight . Now go we in content To liberty , and not to banishment .
Am I a lord , and have I such a lady ? Or do I dream ? Or have I dreamed till now ? I do not sleep : I see , I hear , I speak . I smell sweet savors and I feel soft things . Upon my life , I am a lord indeed And not a tinker , nor Christopher Sly . Well , bring our lady hither to our sight , And once again , a pot o ' the smallest ale .
Yet you began rudely . What are you ? What would you ?
My liege , here is a villain and a traitor , that , look your Grace , has struck the glove which your Majesty is take out of the helmet of Alencon .
See where she comes from shrift with merry look .
The strangeness of your story put Heaviness in me .
Lay hands on the villain . I believe he means to cozen somebody in this city under my countenance .
" Wonder not , nor admire not in thy mind , why I do call thee so , for I will show thee no reason for ' t . "
Arise , you shall not kneel . I pray you , rise . Rise , Egypt .
At this same ancient feast of Capulet 's Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so loves With all the admired beauties of Verona . Go thither , and with unattainted eye Compare her face with some that I shall show , And I will make thee think thy swan a crow .
It would be every man 's thought , and thou art a blessed fellow to think as every man thinks . Never a man 's thought in the world keeps the roadway better than thine . Every man would think me an hypocrite indeed . And what accites your most worshipful thought to think so ?
He came to me , and I delivered it .
How does my good Lord Hamlet ?
By my troth , captain , these are very bitter words .
Yes , it is apparel .
Why sir , did I say you were an honest man ? Setting my knighthood and my soldiership aside , I had lied in my throat if I had said so .
You make fat rascals , Mistress Doll .
O Stephano , hast any more of this ?
What , is he angry ?
Wedding is great Juno 's crown , O blessed bond of board and bed . ' Tis Hymen peoples every town . High wedlock then be honored . Honor , high honor , and renown , To Hymen , god of every town .
Shall this fellow live ?
No , no , they would not .
Not so , Sir Walter . We 'll withdraw awhile . Go to the King , and let there be impawned Some surety for a safe return again , And in the morning early shall my uncle Bring him our purposes . And so farewell .
And we will mend thy wages . I like this place , And willingly could waste my time in it .
My mistress , dearest , and I thus humble ever .
He calls me e' en now , my lord , through a red lattice , and I could discern no part of his face from the window . At last I spied his eyes , and methought he had made two holes in the ale - wife 's new petticoat and so peeped through .
You are welcome .
Mad as the sea and wind when both contend Which is the mightier . In his lawless fit , Behind the arras hearing something stir , Whips out his rapier , cries , " A rat , a rat ! " And in this brainish apprehension kills The unseen good old man .
I thank thee , good Sir John , with all my heart . I am in your debt for your last exercise . Come the next sabbath , and I will content you .
Oh my fair warrior !
More to know Did never meddle with my thoughts .
Alack , there lies more peril in thine eye Than twenty of their swords . Look thou but sweet , And I am proof against their enmity .
Prithee , listen well . I heard a bustling rumor like a fray , And the wind brings it from the Capitol .
O my good lord , I have been your tenant and your father 's tenant these fourscore years .
Away with the joint - stools , remove the court - cupboard , look to the plate . Good thou , save me a piece of marchpane , and , as thou loves me , let the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell . --Antony and Potpan !
Smile heaven upon this fair conjunction , That long have frowned upon their enmity . What traitor hears me and says not " Amen ? " England hath long been mad and scarred herself . The brother blindly shed the brother 's blood . The father rashly slaughtered his own son . The son , compelled , been butcher to the sire . All this divided York and Lancaster , Divided , in their dire division . O , now let Richmond and Elizabeth , The true succeeders of each royal house , By God 's fair ordinance conjoin together , And let their heirs , God , if thy will be so . Enrich the time to come with smooth-faced peace , With smiling plenty and fair prosperous days ! Abate the edge of traitors , gracious Lord , That would reduce these bloody days again , And make poor England weep in streams of blood ! Let them not live to taste this land 's increase , That would with treason wound this fair land 's peace . Now civil wounds are stopped , peace lives again . That she may long live here , God say amen .
Do not torment me . Oh !
If I did think , sir , I were well awake , I 'd strive to tell you . We were dead of sleep And -- how , we know not -- all clapped under hatches , Where but even now with strange and several noises Of roaring , shrieking , howling , jingling chains , And more diversity of sounds , all horrible , We were awaked , straightway at liberty , Where we , in all her trim , freshly beheld Our royal , good , and gallant ship , our Master Capering to eye her . On a trice , so please you , Even in a dream were we divided from them And were brought moping hither .
My cousin Vernon , welcome , by my soul .
If music be the food of love , play on . Give me excess of it that , surfeiting , The appetite may sicken , and so die . That strain again , it had a dying fall . Oh , it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound , That breathes upon a bank of violets , Stealing and giving odor . Enough , no more . ' Tis not so sweet now as it was before . O spirit of love , how quick and fresh art thou , That , notwithstanding thy capacity Receiveth as the sea , nought enters there , Of what validity and pitch soe'er , But falls into abatement and low price Even in a minute . So full of shapes is fancy That it alone is high fantastical .
' Twas a rough night .
Hag-seed , hence ! Fetch us in fuel . And be quick , thou ' rt best , To answer other business . Shrug 'st thou , malice ? If thou neglect 'st or dost unwillingly What I command , I 'll rack thee with old cramps , Fill all thy bones with aches , make thee roar That beasts shall tremble at thy din .
I will , my lord .
Ay , sir , we are some of her trappings .
There are the players .
Slanders , sir . For the satirical rogue says here that old men have gray beards , that their faces are wrinkled , their eyes purging thick amber and plum - tree gum , and that they have a plentiful lack of wit , together with most weak hams -- all which , sir , though I most powerfully and potently believe , yet I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down ; for yourself , sir , should be old as I am , if like a crab you could go backward .
If I had thee in Lipsbury pinfold , I would make thee care for me .
What 's the newest grief ?
And did you see the handkerchief ?
At mine own house , good lady .
I know the boy will well usurp the grace , Voice , gait , and action of a gentlewoman . I long to hear him call the drunkard " husband , " And how my men will stay themselves from laughter When they do homage to this simple peasant . I 'll in to counsel them . Haply my presence May well abate the over - merry spleen Which otherwise would grow into extremes .
To draw apart the body he hath killed , O ' er whom his very madness , like some ore Among a mineral of metals base , Shows itself pure . He weeps for what is done .
No more that thane of Cawdor shall deceive Our bosom interest : go pronounce his present death , And with his former title greet Macbeth .
But Montague is bound as well as I , In penalty alike . And ' tis not hard , I think , For men so old as we to keep the peace .
I cannot blame her . By God 's holy mother , She hath had too much wrong , and I repent My part thereof that I have done to her .
Yea , yea , my lord . I 'll yield him thee asleep , Where thou mayst knock a nail into his head .
News from Verona ! --How now , Balthasar ? Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar ? How doth my lady ? Is my father well ? How fares my Juliet ? That I ask again , For nothing can be ill if she be well .
If the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating coxcomb , is it meet , think you , that we should also , look you , be an ass and a fool and a prating coxcomb , in your own conscience , now ?
Good Enobarbus !
Hark , they roar .
We should have else desired your good advice -- Which still hath been both grave and prosperous -- In this day 's council , but we 'll take tomorrow . Is ' t far you ride ?
For indeed , who would set his wit to so foolish a bird ? Who would give a bird the lie , though he cry " cuckoo " never so ?
Tear him to pieces . He 's a conspirator .
Nay , not sound , I pray you .
But since all is well , keep it so . Wake not a sleeping wolf .
Content .
What say you to a neat 's foot ?
Why , i ' faith , methinks she 's too low for a high praise , too brown for a fair praise , and too little for a great praise . Only this commendation I can afford her , that were she other than she is , she were unhandsome , and being no other but as she is , I do not like her .
He is in earnest .
Now is the winter of our discontent Made glorious summer by this son of York , And all the clouds that loured upon our house In the deep bosom of the ocean buried . Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths , Our bruised arms hung up for monuments , Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings , Our dreadful marches to delightful measures . Grim - visaged war hath smoothed his wrinkled front ; And now , instead of mounting barbed steeds To fright the souls of fearful adversaries , He capers nimbly in a lady 's chamber To the lascivious pleasing of a lute . But I , that am not shaped for sportive tricks , Nor made to court an amorous looking glass ; I , that am rudely stamped and want love 's majesty To strut before a wanton ambling nymph ; I , that am curtailed of this fair proportion , Cheated of feature by dissembling nature , Deformed , unfinished , sent before my time Into this breathing world , scarce half made up , And that so lamely and unfashionable That dogs bark at me as I halt by them -- Why , I , in this weak piping time of peace , Have no delight to pass away the time , Unless to see my shadow in the sun And descant on mine own deformity .
Marry , sir , I am helping you to mar that which God made , a poor unworthy brother of yours , with idleness .
Come , come , we fear the worst . All will be well .
To hear of it . They are about the court , And , as I think , they have already order This night to play before him .
This week he hath been heavy , sour , sad , And much different from the man he was . But till this afternoon his passion Ne'er brake into extremity of rage .
No , I will not cast away my physic but on those that are sick . There is a man haunts the forest that abuses our young plants with carving " Rosalind " on their barks , hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies on brambles , all , forsooth , deifying the name of Rosalind . If I could meet that fancy - monger I would give him some good counsel , for he seems to have the quotidian of love upon him .
How purposed , sir , I pray you ?
If thou beest Trinculo , come forth . I 'll pull thee by the lesser legs . If any be Trinculo 's legs , these are they .
I know not . If they speak but truth of her , These hands shall tear her ; if they wrong her honor , The proudest of them shall well hear of it . Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine Nor age so eat up my invention Nor fortune made such havoc of my means Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends But they shall find , awaked in such a kind , Both strength of limb and policy of mind , Ability in means and choice of friends , To quit me of them throughly .
Trip , Audrey , trip , Audrey . --I attend , I attend .
That such a slave as this should wear a sword , Who wears no honesty . Such smiling rogues as these , Like rats , oft bite the holy cords atwain Which are too intrinse t ' unloose , smooth every passion That in the natures of their lords rebel , Bring oil to fire , snow to the colder moods ; Renege , affirm , and turn their halcyon beaks With every gale and vary of their masters , Knowing naught , like dogs , but following . -- A plague upon your epileptic visage ! Smile you my speeches as I were a fool ? Goose , an I had you upon Sarum plain , I 'd drive ye cackling home to Camelot .
Well , Hal , well , and in some sort it jumps with my humor as well as waiting in the court , I can tell you .
Thou wast provoked by thy bloody mind , That never dream 'st on aught but butcheries . Didst thou not kill this king ?
Fool !
Did ever Dian so become a grove As Kate this chamber with her princely gait ? Oh , be thou Dian , and let her be Kate , And then let Kate be chaste and Dian sportful .
Demetrius loves her , and he loves not you .
Confined together In the same fashion as you gave in charge , Just as you left them , all prisoners , sir , In the line grove which weather - fends your cell . They cannot budge till your release . The king , His brother , and yours , abide all three distracted , And the remainder mourning over them , Brimful of sorrow and dismay . But chiefly Him that you termed , sir , " the good old Lord Gonzalo , " His tears run down his beard like winter 's drops From eaves of reeds . Your charm so strongly works ' em That if you now beheld them , your affections Would become tender .
Between the acting of a dreadful thing And the first motion , all the interim is Like a phantasma or a hideous dream . The genius and the mortal instruments Are then in council , and the state of man , Like to a little kingdom , suffers then The nature of an insurrection .
Sir , I bade them take away you .
' Tis done by me , and ends in " Margaret . "
What 's he that knocks as he would beat down the gate ?
No.
' Tis but fortune , all is fortune . Maria once told me she did affect me , and I have heard herself come thus near , that , should she fancy , it should be one of my complexion . Besides , she uses me with a more exalted respect than anyone else that follows her . What should I think on ' t ?
Yes , by Saint Anne , and ginger shall be hot i ' the mouth too .
What , is this so ?
Ay , or more than we should seek after , for we know enough if we know we are the king 's subjects . If his cause be wrong , our obedience to the king wipes the crime of it out of us .
Saw you the king today , my lord of Derby ?
What is ' t o'clock ?
I do beseech you .
Bring him with triumph home unto his house !
This is a sorry sight .
Eros ! Mine armor , Eros !
Why , is it not news to hear of Petruchio 's coming ?
No. -- For you , most wicked sir , whom to call brother Would even infect my mouth , I do forgive Thy rankest fault , all of them , and require My dukedom of thee , which perforce , I know , Thou must restore .
Thou shalt be lord of it and I 'll serve thee .
But why , why , why ?
Where , where , Messala , doth his body lie ?
It was more of his courtesy than your deserving .
Ay , my lord .
To get his place and to plume up my will In double knavery . How ? How ? Let 's see . After some time , to abuse Othello 's ear That he is too familiar with his wife . He hath a person and a smooth dispose To be suspected , framed to make women false . The Moor is of a free and open nature That thinks men honest that but seem to be so , And will as tenderly be led by th ' nose As asses are . I have ' t . It is engendered ! Hell and night Must bring this monstrous birth to the world 's light .
I do but keep the peace . Put up thy sword , Or manage it to part these men with me .
What does he say of Brutus ?
If any such there be , heaven pardon him !
Ay , sir ; there are a crew of wretched souls That stay his cure . Their malady convinces The great assay of art , but at his touch -- Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand -- They presently amend .
Is the day so young ?
Dost grant me , hedgehog ? Then , God grant me too Thou mayst be damned for that wicked deed . O , he was gentle , mild , and virtuous .
Why , then , build me thy fortunes upon the basis of valor . Challenge me the count 's youth to fight with him . Hurt him in eleven places . My niece shall take note of it , and assure thyself , there is no love - broker in the world can more prevail in man 's commendation with woman than report of valor .
Ay , ay , a scratch , a scratch . Marry , ' tis enough . Where is my page?- -Go , villain , fetch a surgeon .
Take up the sword again , or take up me .
Every one .
Good , yet remember whom thou hast aboard .
Go , Philostrate , Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments . Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth . Turn melancholy forth to funerals . The pale companion is not for our pomp .
To hold you in perpetual amity , To make you brothers , and to knit your hearts With an unslipping knot , take Antony Octavia to his wife , whose beauty claims No worse a husband than the best of men , Whose virtue and whose general graces speak That which none else can utter . By this marriage , All little jealousies , which now seem great , And all great fears , which now import their dangers , Would then be nothing . Truths would be tales , Where now half - tales be truths . Her love to both Would each to other and all loves to both Draw after her . Pardon what I have spoke , For ' tis a studied , not a present thought , By duty ruminated .
In all which time , you and your husband Grey Were factious for the house of Lancaster . -- And , Rivers , so were you . --Was not your husband In Margaret 's battle at Saint Albans slain ? Let me put in your minds , if you forget , What you have been ere this , and what you are ; Withal , what I have been , and what I am .
You speak , Lord Mowbray , now you know not what . The Earl of Hereford was reputed then In England the most valiant gentleman . Who knows on whom fortune would then have smiled ? But if your father had been victor there , He ne'er had borne it out of Coventry ; For all the country in a general voice Cried hate upon him ; and all their prayers and love
Let us rather Hold fast the mortal sword and , like good men , Bestride our downfall'n birthdom . Each new morn New widows howl , new orphans cry , new sorrows Strike heaven on the face , that it resounds As if it felt with Scotland and yelled out Like syllable of dolor .
I hear some noise . Lady , come from that nest Of death , contagion , and unnatural sleep . A greater power than we can contradict Hath thwarted our intents . Come , come away . Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead , And Paris too . Come , I 'll dispose of thee Among a sisterhood of holy nuns . Stay not to question , for the watch is coming . Come , go , good Juliet . I dare no longer stay .
' Tis no matter for his swellings , nor his turkey - cocks . -- God pless you , Aunchient Pistol , you scurvy , lousy knave , God pless you .
Good Father , I beseech you on my knees , Hear me with patience but to speak a word .
I do assure thee , father , so it is .
Yea , leave that labor to great Hercules , And let it be more than Alcides ' twelve .
Am I in earth , in heaven , or in hell ? Sleeping or waking , mad or well - advised ?
But jealous souls will not be answered so . They are not ever jealous for the cause , But jealous for they 're jealous . It is a monster Begot upon itself , born on itself .
Prepare the body then , and follow us .
Ay , my lord .
Et tu , Brute? --Then fall , Caesar .
You , Nick Bottom , are set down for Pyramus .
Now , by my holidam , here comes Katherina !
Hail , gentle sir .
Hie thee , gentle Jew .
Suivez-vous le grand capitaine .
Be bloody , bold , and resolute . Laugh to scorn The power of man , for none of woman born Shall harm Macbeth .
Like a tench ? By the Mass , there is ne'er a king christen could be better bit than I have been since the first cock .
Certainly , aunchient , it is not a thing to rejoice at , for if , look you , he were my brother , I would desire the duke to use his good pleasure and put him to execution , for discipline ought to be used .
Come , swear to that , kiss the book . I will furnish it anon with new contents , swear .
What , will you go unto the Tower , my lord ?
Come , let 's make haste ; she 'll soon be back again .
Why , how should she be murdered ?
God made him and therefore let him pass for a man . In truth , I know it is a sin to be a mocker , but he ! -- why , he hath a horse better than the Neapolitan 's , a better bad habit of frowning than the Count Palatine . He is every man in no man . If a throstle sing , he falls straight a - capering . He will fence with his own shadow . If I should marry him , I should marry twenty husbands . If he would despise me I would forgive him , for if he love me to madness I shall never requite him .
Is that true ? Why , then Othello and Desdemona return again to Venice .
Oh , help !
What , will my daughter prove a good musician ?
Ay , and briefly .
My lord , the queen would speak with you , and presently .
Sweet Phoebe , pity me .
Like her ? O Isis , ' tis impossible .
Nay , he reserved a blanket , else we had been all shamed .
No , truly , for the truest poetry is the most feigning , and lovers are given to poetry , and what they swear in poetry may be said as lovers they do feign .
A foutre for the world and worldlings base ! I speak of Africa and golden joys .
Let me sit heavy on thy soul tomorrow ! Think how thou stabbed 'st me in my prime of youth At Tewkesbury . Despair therefore , and die ! Be cheerful , Richmond , for the wronged souls Of butchered princes fight in thy behalf . King Henry 's issue , Richmond , comforts thee .
So is he mine ; and in such bloody distance That every minute of his being thrusts Against my near 'st of life . And though I could With barefaced power sweep him from my sight And bid my will avouch it , yet I must not , For certain friends that are both his and mine , Whose loves I may not drop , but wail his fall Who I myself struck down . And thence it is , That I to your assistance do make love , Masking the business from the common eye For sundry weighty reasons .
This is a sleepy tune . O murderous slumber , Layst thou thy leaden mace upon my boy That plays thee music?- -Gentle knave , good night . I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee . If thou dost nod , thou break 'st thy instrument . I 'll take it from thee . And , good boy , good night . --Let me see , let me see . Is not the leaf turned down Where I left reading ? Here it is , I think .
If you 'll come to supper tonight , you may . If you will not , come when you are next prepared for .
Here in the tent .
By the Lord , thou sayest true , lad . And is not my hostess of the tavern a most sweet wench ?
So please your lordship , none .
It is an accustomed action with her to seem thus washing her hands . I have known her continue in this a quarter of an hour .
O , make them joyful . Grant their lawful suit .
Mi perdonato , gentle master mine . I am in all affected as yourself , Glad that you thus continue your resolve To suck the sweets of sweet philosophy . Only , good master , while we do admire This virtue and this moral discipline , Let 's be no stoics nor no stocks , I pray , Or so devote to Aristotle 's checks As Ovid be an outcast quite abjured . Balk logic with acquaintance that you have , And practice rhetoric in your common talk ; Music and poesy use to quicken you ; The mathematics and the metaphysics -- Fall to them as you find your stomach serves you . No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en . In brief , sir , study what you most affect .
I will so . What 's the matter ?
I am scarce in breath , my lord .
No , no , the drink , the drink ! --O my dear Hamlet ! The drink , the drink ! I am poisoned .
Bassanio , Lord Love , if thy will it be !
I know not .
And yonder , Caesar .
But soft , behold ! Lo , where it comes again . I 'll cross it though it blast me . --Stay , illusion !
Talk you of young Master Launcelot ? Mark me now . Now will I raise the waters . --Talk you of young Master Launcelot ?
Doth this news hold of good King Edward 's death ?
It cannot be .
I took him to be killed with a thunderstroke . But art thou not drowned , Stephano ? I hope now thou art not drowned . Is the storm overblown ? I hid me under the dead mooncalf 's gaberdine for fear of the storm . And art thou living , Stephano ? O Stephano , two Neapolitans ' scaped !
Why , even in that was heaven ordinant . I had my father 's signet in my purse , Which was the model of that Danish seal . Folded the writ up in form of th ' other , Subscribed it , gave ' t th ' impression , placed it safely , The changeling never known . Now , the next day Was our sea fight , and what to this was sequent Thou know 'st already .
Now , Signior Petruchio , how speed you with my daughter ?
A famous rebel art thou , Colevile .
" Antony , " thou wouldst say .
Dost thou hear , hostess ?
If but as well I other accents borrow , That can my speech diffuse , my good intent May carry through itself to that full issue For which I razed my likeness . Now , banished Kent , If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemned , So may it come thy master , whom thou lovest , Shall find thee full of labors .
And what 's he then that says I play the villain ? When this advice is free I give and honest , Probal to thinking and indeed the course To win the Moor again ? For ' tis most easy Th ' inclining Desdemona to subdue In any honest suit . She 's framed as fruitful As the free elements . And then for her To win the Moor , were to renounce his baptism , All seals and symbols of redeemed sin , His soul is so enfettered to her love , That she may make , unmake , do what she list , Even as her appetite shall play the god With his weak function . How am I then a villain To counsel Cassio to this parallel course , Directly to his good ? Divinity of hell ! When devils will the blackest sins put on They do suggest at first with heavenly shows As I do now . For whiles this honest fool Plies Desdemona to repair his fortune And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor , I 'll pour this pestilence into his ear :
As woman 's love .
That is no slander , sir , which is a truth , And what I spake , I spake it to my face .
Why , this is excellent .
I have been in such a pickle since I saw you last that , I fear me , will never out of my bones . I shall not fear flyblowing .
What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue ? I cannot speak to her , yet she urged conference . O poor Orlando ! Thou art overthrown . Or Charles or something weaker masters thee .
Why , you speak truth . I never yet saw man , How wise , how noble , young , how rarely featured But she would spell him backward . If fair - faced , She would swear the gentleman should be her sister ; If black , why , Nature , drawing of an antic , Made a foul blot ; if tall , a lance ill - headed; If low , an agate very vilely cut ; If speaking , why , a vane blown with all winds ; If silent , why , a block moved with none . So turns she every man the wrong side out And never gives to truth and virtue that Which simpleness and merit purchaseth .
O Spartan dog , More fell than anguish , hunger , or the sea , Look on the tragic loading of this bed . This is thy work . The object poisons sight , Let it be hid . --Gratiano , keep the house And seize upon the fortunes of the Moor , For they succeed on you . --To you , lord governor , Remains the censure of this hellish villain : The time , the place , the torture . Oh , enforce it ! Myself will straight aboard , and to the state This heavy act with heavy heart relate .
Such wind as scatters young men through the world To seek their fortunes farther than at home , Where small experience grows . But in a few , Signior Hortensio , thus it stands with me : Antonio , my father , is deceased , And I have thrust myself into this maze , Happily to wive and thrive as best I may . Crowns in my purse I have and goods at home , And so am come abroad to see the world .
All this my sister is , or else should be .
Shall ' t be tonight at supper ?
Husband , let 's follow to see the end of this ado .
It is here , Hamlet . Hamlet , thou art slain . No medicine in the world can do thee good . In thee there is not half an hour of life . The treacherous instrument is in thy hand , Unbated and envenomed . The foul practice Hath turned itself on me . Lo , here I lie , Never to rise again . Thy mother 's poisoned . I can no more . The king , the king 's to blame .
The wildest hath not such a heart as you . Run when you will , the story shall be changed .
He uses his folly like a stalking - horse , and under the presentation of that he shoots his wit .
Many times , madam .
Cry mercy , lords and watchful gentlemen , That you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here .
Oh , there be players that I have seen play and heard others praise , not to speak it profanely , that , neither having th ' accent of Christians nor the gait of Christian , pagan , nor man , have so strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of nature 's journeymen had made men and not made them well , they imitated humanity so abominably .
No , my good knight . Go with my brothers to my lords of England . I and my bosom must debate awhile , And then I would no other company .
Come , let 's see the event .
Nor ever heard , nor ever did suspect .
Is not parchment made of sheepskins ?
Saw you no more ? Marked you not how her sister Began to scold and raise up such a storm That mortal ears might hardly endure the din ?
What angel wakes me from my flowery bed ?
Yea , marry , there 's the point . But if without him we be thought too feeble , My judgment is we should not step too far Till we had his assistance by the hand . For in a theme so bloody - faced as this , Conjecture , expectation , and surmise Of aids incertain should not be admitted .
You would be , sweet madam , if your miseries were in the same abundance as your good fortunes are . And yet for aught I see , they are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that starve with nothing . It is no mean happiness , therefore , to be seated in the mean . Superfluity comes sooner by white hairs , but competency lives longer .
No , uncle , but our crosses on the way Have made it tedious , wearisome , and heavy . I want more uncles here to welcome me .
Marry , so I mean , sweet Katherine , in thy bed . And therefore , setting all this chat aside , Thus in plain terms : your father hath consented That you shall be my wife , your dowry ' greed on , And , will you , nill you , I will marry you . Now , Kate , I am a husband for your turn , For , by this light , whereby I see thy beauty , Thy beauty that doth make me like thee well , Thou must be married to no man but me . For I am he am born to tame you , Kate , And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate Conformable as other household Kates .
A fustian riddle !
Marry , I will . Let them play it . Is not a comonty a Christmas gambold or a tumbling - trick ?
Stay , you imperfect speakers , tell me more . By Sinel 's death I know I am thane of Glamis . But how of Cawdor ? The thane of Cawdor lives , A prosperous gentleman , and to be king Stands not within the prospect of belief , No more than to be Cawdor . Say from whence You owe this strange intelligence , or why Upon this blasted heath you stop our way With such prophetic greeting . Speak , I charge you .
He 's walked the way of nature , And to our purposes he lives no more .
I follow you .
Don Pedro is approached .
Why , how now , Juliet ?
Did you ever cure any so ?
Yet more quarreling with occasion ! Wilt thou show the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant ? I pray thee , understand a plain man in his plain meaning . Go to thy fellows , bid them cover the table , serve in the meat , and we will come in to dinner .
Even to the next willow , about your own business , county . What fashion will you wear the garland of ? About your neck like an usurer 's chain ? Or under your arm like a lieutenant 's scarf ? You must wear it one way , for the Prince hath gat your Hero .
Was not Charles , the duke 's wrestler , here to speak with me ?
' Tis well I am found by you . I will but spend a word here in the house And go with you .
Thine eyes , sweet lady , have infected mine .
It must be so , for miracles are ceased , And therefore we must needs admit the means How things are perfected .
Nay , but I know who loves him .
Well , thus we play the fools with the time , and the spirits of the wise sit in the clouds and mock us . Is your master here in London ?
Your presence needs must puzzle Antony , Take from his heart , take from his brain , from 's time What should not then be spared . He is already Traduced for levity , and ' tis said in Rome That Photinus , an eunuch , and your maids Manage this war .
By th ' mass , and ' tis like a camel indeed .
Fit to govern ? No , not to live . --O nation miserable , With an untitled tyrant bloody - sceptered , When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again , Since that the truest issue of thy throne By his own interdiction stands accursed , And does blaspheme his breed?- -Thy royal father Was a most sainted king . The queen that bore thee , Oftener upon her knees than on her feet , Died every day she lived . Fare thee well ! These evils thou repeat 'st upon thyself Have banished me from Scotland . --O my breast , Thy hope ends here !
Ephesians , my lord , of the old church .
Nay , that 's true , that 's very true . Go , Tubal , fee me an officer . Bespeak him a fortnight before . --I will have the heart of him if he forfeit , for were he out of Venice I can make what merchandise I will . --Go , go , Tubal , and meet me at our synagogue . Go , good Tubal . At our synagogue , Tubal .
It is no time to discourse , so Chrish save me . The day is hot , and the weather , and the wars , and the king , and the dukes . It is no time to discourse . The town is beseeched , and the trumpet call us to the breach , and we talk and , be Chrish , do nothing , ' tis shame for us all . So God sa ' me , ' tis shame to stand still . It is shame , by my hand . And there is throats to be cut and works to be done , and there ish nothing done , so Chrish sa ' me , la .
Hark , Tranio ! Thou may 'st hear Minerva speak .
The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark When neither is attended , and I think The nightingale , if she should sing by day When every goose is cackling , would be thought No better a musician than the wren . How many things by season seasoned are To their right praise and true perfection ! Peace ! How the moon sleeps with Endymion And would not be awaked .
I fly , Biondello . But they may chance to need thee at home . Therefore leave us .
He is composed and framed of treachery , And fled he is upon this villainy .
Marry , well said , very well said . Look you , sir , Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris , And how , and who , what means , and where they keep What company at what expense ; and finding By this encompassment and drift of question That they do know my son , come you more nearer Than your particular demands will touch it . Take you , as ' twere , some distant knowledge of him , As thus : " I know his father and his friends , And , in part , him . " Do you mark this , Reynaldo ?
Oh , that this too , too sullied flesh would melt , Thaw , and resolve itself into a dew , Or that the Everlasting had not fixed His canon ' gainst self - slaughter ! O God , God ! How weary , stale , flat , and unprofitable Seem to me all the uses of this world ! Fie on ' t , ah fie ! ' Tis an unweeded garden That grows to seed . Things rank and gross in nature Possess it merely . That it should come to this . But two months dead -- nay , not so much , not two . So excellent a king , that was to this Hyperion to a satyr . So loving to my mother
I know none of that name , lady . There was none such in the army of any sort .
For a taste : If a hart do lack a hind , Let him seek out Rosalind . If the cat will after kind , So , be sure , will Rosalind . Winter garments must be lined , So must slender Rosalind . They that reap must sheaf and bind , Then to cart with Rosalind . Sweetest nut hath sourest rind ; Such a nut is Rosalind . He that sweetest rose will find Must find love 's prick , and Rosalind . This is the very false gallop of verses . Why do you infect yourself with them ?
Shall sweet Bianca practice how to bride it ?
Zounds , where thou wilt , lad . I 'll make one . An I do not , call me villain and baffle me .
Go , you giddy goose .
Dead life , blind sight , poor mortal living ghost , Woe 's scene , world 's shame , grave 's due by life usurped , Brief abstract and record of tedious days , Rest thy unrest on England 's lawful earth , Unlawfully made drunk with innocent blood .
Pistol him , pistol him .
My good lord .
How if I answer " No " ?
Will you shog off ? I would have you solus .
Anon , anon , sir .
Awake ! What , ho , Brabantio ! Thieves ! Thieves ! Look to your house , your daughter , and your bags ! Thieves ! thieves !
Thus answer I in the name of Benedick , But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio . ' Tis certain so , the Prince woos for himself . Friendship is constant in all other things Save in the office and affairs of love . Therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues . Let every eye nogetiate for itself And trust no agent , for beauty is a witch Against whose charms faith melteth into blood . This is an accident of hourly proof , Which I mistrusted not . Farewell , therefore , Hero .
She doth indeed , my daughter says so , and the ecstasy hath so much overborne her that my daughter is sometime afeared she will do a desperate outrage to herself . It is very true .
If he fall in , good night , or sink or swim ! Send danger from the east unto the west , So honor cross it from the north to south , And let them grapple : O , the blood more stirs To rouse a lion than to start a hare !
Indeed ?
No , I am an ape .
What , must our mouths be cold ?
Ay , but , lady , That policy may either last so long , Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet , Or breed itself so out of circumstances , That , I being absent and my place supplied , My general will forget my love and service .
Now I fear thee not . Sirrah young gamester , your father were a fool To give thee all and in his waning age Set foot under thy table . Tut , a toy ! An old Italian fox is not so kind , my boy .
Observe his inclination in yourself .
I 'll look to like if looking liking move . But no more deep will I endart mine eye Than your consent gives strength to make it fly .
Alas , poor ghost !
Is this a dagger which I see before me , The handle toward my hand ? Come , let me clutch thee . I have thee not , and yet I see thee still . Art thou not , fatal vision , sensible To feeling as to sight ? Or art thou but A dagger of the mind , a false creation , Proceeding from the heat - oppressed brain ? I see thee yet , in form as palpable As this which now I draw . Thou marshall 'st me the way that I was going , And such an instrument I was to use . Mine eyes are made the fools o ' th ' other senses , Or else worth all the rest . I see thee still , And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood , Which was not so before . There 's no such thing . It is the bloody business which informs Thus to mine eyes . Now o'er the one half-world Nature seems dead , and wicked dreams abuse The curtained sleep . Witchcraft celebrates Pale Hecate 's offerings , and withered murder , Alarumed by his sentinel , the wolf , Whose howl 's his watch , thus with his stealthy pace , With Tarquin 's ravishing strides , towards his design Moves like a ghost . Thou sure and firm - set earth , Hear not my steps , which way they walk , for fear Thy very stones prate of my whereabout , And take the present horror from the time , Which now suits with it . Whiles I threat , he lives . Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives .
But , my good lord , your Graces ' words shall serve As well as I had seen and heard him speak ; And do not doubt , right noble princes both , But I 'll acquaint our duteous citizens With all your just proceedings in this case .
I have nothing with this answer , Hamlet . These words are not mine .
You shall have anything .
I know thee well . Thou hast obtained thy suit . Shylock thy master spoke with me this day , And hath preferred thee , if it be preferment To leave a rich Jew 's service , to become The follower of so poor a gentleman .
Not in love neither ? Then let us say you are sad Because you are not merry -- and ' twere as easy For you to laugh and leap and say you are merry Because you are not sad . Now , by two-headed Janus , Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time .
He lies tonight within seven leagues of Rome .
Yea , just so much as you may take upon a knife 's point and choke a daw withal . You have no stomach , Signior . Fare you well .
You have heard him swear downright he was .
That he should draw his several strengths together And come against us in full puissance Need not be dreaded .
Make no noise , make no noise . Draw the curtains -- so , so , so . We 'll go to supper i ' th ' morning . So , so , so .
He may show what outward courage he will , but I believe , as cold a night as ' tis , he could wish himself in Thames up to the neck ; and so I would he were , and I by him , at all adventures , so we were quit here .
Stay , yet look back with me unto the Tower . -- Pity , you ancient stones , those tender babes Whom envy hath immured within your walls -- Rough cradle for such little pretty ones . Rude ragged nurse , old sullen playfellow For tender princes , use my babies well . So foolish sorrows bids your stones farewell .
I hope , my lord , all' s well . What is the news , my lord ?
Thou sayest well , and it holds well too , for the fortune of us that are the moon 's men doth ebb and flow like the sea , being governed , as the sea is , by the moon . As for proof now : a purse of gold most resolutely snatched on Monday night and most dissolutely spent on Tuesday morning , got with swearing " Lay by " and spent with crying " Bring in " ; now in as low an ebb as the foot of the ladder , and by and by in as high a flow as the ridge of the gallows .
As duly , But not as truly , As bird doth sing on bough .
Why , now , as fast as she can marry us .
How now ? What 's the matter ?
How came she by that light ?
Do you choose for me .
Charmian !
What does the tyrant ?
Come , hang them on this line .
Well thought upon . I have it here about me . He gives a paper When you have done , repair to Crosby Place . But , sirs , be sudden in the execution , Withal obdurate ; do not hear him plead , For Clarence is well-spoken and perhaps May move your hearts to pity if you mark him .
Upon the heath .
Having once this juice , I 'll watch Titania when she is asleep And drop the liquor of it in her eyes . The next thing then she waking looks upon -- Be it on lion , bear , or wolf , or bull , On meddling monkey or on busy ape -- She shall pursue it with the soul of love . And ere I take this charm from of her sight -- As I can take it with another herb -- I 'll make her render up her page to me . But who comes here ? I am invisible . And I will overhear their conference .
Sola ! Did you see Master Lorenzo ? Master Lorenzo , sola , sola !
My tears begin to take his part so much , They 'll mar my counterfeiting .
That 's mercy , but too much security . Let him be punished , sovereign , lest example Breed , by his sufferance , more of such a kind .
Like a drowned man , a fool and a madman . One draught above heat makes him a fool , the second mads him , and a third drowns him .
Is ' t possible that on so little acquaintance you should like her ? That , but seeing , you should love her ? And loving , woo ? And wooing , she should grant ? And will you persever to enjoy her ?
I give thee leave to tell me so ? I lay aside that which grows to me ? If thou gett 'st any leave of me , hang me ; if thou tak 'st leave , thou wert better be hanged . You hunt counter . Hence ! Avaunt !
All things are ready if our minds be so .
Fear me not , man . I will not break away : I 'll give thee , ere I leave thee , so much money , To warrant thee , as I am ' rested for . My wife is in a wayward mood today And will not lightly trust the messenger That I should be attached in Ephesus . I tell you , ' twill sound harshly in her ears .
What Antony shall speak , I will protest , He speaks by leave and by permission , And that we are contented Caesar shall Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies . It shall advantage more than do us wrong .
Indeed , there is Fortune too hard for Nature , when Fortune makes Nature 's natural the cutter - off of Nature 's wit .
Out on thee , seeming ! I will write against it . You seem to me as Dian in her orb , As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown . But you are more intemperate in your blood Than Venus , or those pampered animals That rage in savage sensuality .
I am not furnished with the present money . Besides , I have some business in the town . Good signior , take the stranger to my house , And with you take the chain , and bid my wife Disburse the sum on the receipt thereof . Perchance I will be there as soon as you .
Casca , you are the first that rears your hand .
Hal , if thou see me down in the battle and bestride me , so ; ' tis a point of friendship .
To be thus is nothing , But to be safely thus . Our fears in Banquo Stick deep , and in his royalty of nature Reigns that which would be feared . ' Tis much he dares , And to that dauntless temper of his mind He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor To act in safety . There is none but he Whose being I do fear , and under him My genius is rebuked , as it is said Mark Antony 's was by Caesar . He chid the sisters When first they put the name of king upon me And bade them speak to him . Then , prophetlike , They hailed him father to a line of kings . Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown And put a barren scepter in my grip , Thence to be wrenched with an unlineal hand , No son of mine succeeding . If ' t be so , For Banquo 's issue have I filed my mind ; For them the gracious Duncan have I murdered ; Put rancors in the vessel of my peace Only for them ; and mine eternal jewel Given to the common enemy of man , To make them kings , the seed of Banquo kings ! Rather than so , come fate into the list , And champion me to th ' utterance . Who 's there ?
He doth entreat your Grace , my noble lord , To visit him tomorrow or next day . He is within , with two right reverend fathers , Divinely bent to meditation , And in no worldly suits would he be moved To draw him from his holy exercise .
' Tis meet I should be used so , very meet . How have I been behaved that he might stick The small 'st opinion on my least misuse ?
Do not swear , and eat it .
Here , madam : Hic ibat Simois , hic est Sigeia tellus , Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis .
Honest , my lord ?
I hear the news , my lord .
Unhouseled , disappointed , unaneled . No reckoning made , but sent to my account With all my imperfections on my head . Oh , horrible , oh , horrible , most horrible ! If thou hast nature in thee , bear it not . Let not the royal bed of Denmark be A couch for luxury and damned incest . But howsoever thou pursuest this act , Taint not thy mind , nor let thy soul contrive Against thy mother aught . Leave her to heaven And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge To prick and sting her . Fare thee well at once . The glowworm shows the matin to be near , And ' gins to pale his uneffectual fire . Adieu , adieu , adieu . Remember me .
You must first go yourself to hazard ere you have them .
Faith , like enough .
Run to my study . --By and by ! --God 's will , What simpleness is this ! --I come , I come .
Not so happy , yet much happier .
Well pray you , father .
And in good time here the lieutenant comes . -- Master Lieutenant , pray you , by your leave , How doth the prince and my young son of York ?
Keep your hundred pounds to yourself . He shall need none so long as I live .
Come , let them be opinioned .
She did deceive her father , marrying you , And when she seemed to shake and fear your looks , She loved them most .
' Tis but a little way that I can bring you , For I attend here . But I 'll see you soon .
What is Pyramus ? A lover or a tyrant ?
Yes , that you did , sir , and forswore it too .
A very dishonest paltry boy , and more a coward than a hare . His dishonesty appears in leaving his friend here in necessity and denying him . And for his cowardship , ask Fabian .
Come , come , you are a fool , And turned into the extremity of love . I saw her hand . She has a leathern hand , A freestone - colored hand . I verily did think That her old gloves were on , but ' twas her hands . She has a huswife 's hand-- but that 's no matter . I say she never did invent this letter . This is a man 's invention , and his hand .
' Tis strange , my Theseus , that these lovers speak of .
What , sir ?
I take your princely word for these redresses .
The Prince hath ta'en it hence . Go seek him out . Is he so hasty that he doth suppose my sleep my death ? Find him , my Lord of Warwick . Chide him hither .
Adieu , poor soul that tak 'st thy leave of it .
Have patience , gentle friends . I must not read it . It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you . You are not wood , you are not stones , but men . And , being men , bearing the will of Caesar , It will inflame you , it will make you mad . ' Tis good you know not that you are his heirs . For , if you should --Oh , what would come of it !
He is indeed , and living to kill thee . I prithee , lend me thy sword .
So many miseries have crazed my voice That my woe - wearied tongue is still and mute . Edward Plantagenet , why art thou dead ?
Here comes my man . I think he brings the money . How now , sir ? Have you that I sent you for ?
Look in the calendar and bring me word .
I am sure you know him well enough .
Out , you mad - headed ape ! A weasel hath not such a deal of spleen As you are tossed with . In faith , I 'll know your business , Harry , that I will . I fear my brother Mortimer doth stir About his title , and hath sent for you To line his enterprise ; but if you go --
The base is right ; ' tis the base knave that jars . How fiery and forward our pedant is ! Now , for my life , the knave doth court my love . Pedascule , I 'll watch you better yet .
Good people , bring a rescue or two . -- Thou wot , wot thou ? Thou wot , wot ta ? Do , do , thou rogue . Do , thou hempseed .
O villain ! Thou wilt be condemned into everlasting redemption for this .
But if you do , sir , I am for you . I serve as good a man as you .
I would I were , to be revenged on thee .
How now , my metal of India ?
And how accompanied ? Canst thou tell that ?
And so I am , I am .
Come now , a roundel and a fairy song . Then for the third part of a minute , hence -- Some to kill cankers in the musk - rose buds , Some war with reremice for their leathern wings To make my small elves coats , and some keep back The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders At our quaint spirits . Sing me now asleep . Then to your offices and let me rest .
A very ribbon in the cap of youth , Yet needful too , for youth no less becomes The light and careless livery that it wears Than settled age his sables and his weeds , Importing health and graveness . Two months since , Here was a gentleman of Normandy . I 've seen myself , and served against , the French , And they can well on horseback . But this gallant Had witchcraft in ' t . He grew unto his seat , And to such wondrous doing brought his horse As he had been encorpsed and demi - natured With the brave beast . So far he topped my thought , That I , in forgery of shapes and tricks , Come short of what he did .
Nay , mock not , mock not . The body of your discourse is sometimes guarded with fragments and the guards are but slightly basted on neither . Ere you flout old ends any further , examine your conscience . And so I leave you .
Hark , how they knock ! --Who 's there?- -Romeo , arise . Thou wilt be taken . --Stay awhile . --Stand up .
Nuncle Lear , nuncle Lear , tarry and take the fool with thee . A fox when one has caught her And such a daughter Should sure to the slaughter , If my cap would buy a halter . So the fool follows after .
Just , if he send me no husband , for the which blessing I am at him upon my knees every morning and evening . Lord , I could not endure a husband with a beard on his face ! I had rather lie in the woolen .
Or an old lion , or a lover 's lute .
In his bosom ? In what chapter of his bosom ?
Worcester , get thee gone ; for I do see Danger and disobedience in thine eye . O sir , your presence is too bold and peremptory , And majesty might never yet endure The moody frontier of a servant brow . You have good leave to leave us . When we need Your use and counsel , we shall send for you .
It is to be all made of fantasy , All made of passion and all made of wishes , All adoration , duty , and observance , All humbleness , all patience and impatience , All purity , all trial , all observance , And so am I for Phoebe .
Our troops set forth tomorrow . Stay with us . The ways are dangerous .
Now the Lord lighten thee . Thou art a great fool .
What manner of man , an it like your Majesty ?
Flower of this purple dye , Hit with Cupid 's archery , Sink in apple of his eye . When his love he doth espy , Let her shine as gloriously As the Venus of the sky . When thou wakest , if she be by , Beg of her for remedy .
It is extempore , from my mother wit .
And here will rest me . Come , thou gentle day ! For if but once thou show me thy grey light , I 'll find Demetrius and revenge this spite .
Before the head has any -- The head and he shall louse . So beggars marry many . The man that makes his toe What he his heart should make Shall of a corn cry woe , And turn his sleep to wake . For there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths in a glass .
Do you mark that ?
Petit monsieur , que dit-il ?
Pitchers have ears .
How doth the prince ?
At the duke 's oak we meet .
Nothing , but this is so .
And yours , most noble Bardolph .
What means this ?
Be it so . Amen .
In what particular thought to work I know not , But in the gross and scope of mine opinion This bodes some strange eruption to our state .
Where is he now ?
Now thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the church . Argal , the gallows may do well to thee . To ' t again , come .
Now , by my sword --
Bring us the letter . Call the messenger .
How like a fawning publican he looks ! I hate him for he is a Christian , But more for that in low simplicity He lends out money gratis and brings down The rate of usance here with us in Venice . If I can catch him once upon the hip , I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him . He hates our sacred nation , and he rails , Even there where merchants most do congregate , On me , my bargains and my well - won thrift ,
Yes , one , and in this manner . He was to imagine me his love , his mistress , and I set him every day to woo me ; at which time would I , being but a moonish youth , grieve , be effeminate , changeable , longing and liking , proud , fantastical , apish , shallow , inconstant , full of tears , full of smiles ; for every passion something , and for no passion truly anything , as boys and women are , for the most part , cattle of this color ; would now like him , now loathe him ; then entertain him , then forswear him ; now weep for him , then spit at him , that I drave my suitor from his mad humor of love to a living humor of madness , which was to forswear the full stream of the world and to live in a nook merely monastic . And thus I cured him , and this way will I take upon me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep 's heart , that there shall not be one spot of love in ' t .
Foul , wrinkled witch , what mak 'st thou in my sight ?
Such welcome and unwelcome things at once ' Tis hard to reconcile .
Master , you looked so longly on the maid , Perhaps you marked not what 's the pith of all .
O ye immortal gods !
But not , as I am , royal .
How say you to that , Malvolio ?
And , like a traitor to the name of God , Didst break that vow , and with thy treacherous blade Unrippedst the bowels of thy sovereign 's son .
He that buckles him in my belt cannot live in less .
Besides , our hands are hard .
Peace , ho ! Hear Antony . Most noble Antony !
Francis !
Nay , do not quarrel with us , good old man .
The matter ?
Go you , Malvolio . If it be a suit from the count , I am sick , or not at home . What you will , to dismiss it .
So I do , against my will .
The doors are broke .
Twice did he turn his back and purposed so , But kindness , nobler ever than revenge , And nature , stronger than his just occasion , Made him give battle to the lioness , Who quickly fell before him ; in which hurtling , From miserable slumber I awaked .
I would my father looked but with my eyes .
Ah , rogue !
Thou liest .
Till noon ? Till night , my lord , and all night too .
Dismiss me ?
Good sentences , and well pronounced .
Be you constant in the accusation , and my cunning shall not shame me .
Oh , ay , Curtis , ay , and therefore fire , fire . Cast on no water .
Stay , I prithee , tell me what thou thinkest of me .
Can he be angry ? I have seen the cannon When it hath blown his ranks into the air And , like the devil , from his very arm Puffed his own brother -- and is he angry ? Something of moment then , I will go meet him . There 's matter in ' t indeed , if he be angry .
No.
A goodly portly man , i ' faith , and a corpulent ; of a cheerful look , a pleasing eye , and a most noble carriage , and , as I think , his age some fifty , or , by ' r Lady , inclining to three score ; and now I remember me , his name is Falstaff . If that man should be lewdly given , he deceiveth me , for , Harry , I see virtue in his looks . If then the tree may be known by the fruit , as the fruit by the tree , then peremptorily I speak it : there is virtue in that Falstaff ; him keep with , the rest banish . And tell me now , thou naughty varlet , tell me , where hast thou been this month ?
I have a suit to you .
Some of my shame , if you will know of me What man I am , and how , and why , and where This handkercher was stained .
Masters , let him go . He is my prisoner , and you shall not have him .
We are very sorry for't .
Why , there 's for thee , and there , and there . Are all the people mad ?
And do you now strew flowers in his way That comes in triumph over Pompey 's blood ? Be gone ! Run to your houses , fall upon your knees , Pray to the gods to intermit the plague That needs must light on this ingratitude .
What is thy name that in the battle thus Thou crossest me ? What honor dost thou seek Upon my head ?
O , welcome , father ! Father , I charge thee , by thy reverence , Here to unfold ( though lately we intended To keep in darkness what occasion now Reveals before ' tis ripe ) what thou dost know Hath newly passed between this youth and me .
Why , man ?
Art thou there , Diomed ? Draw thy sword and give me Sufficing strokes for death .
Was ' t not the way ?
Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking ?
I must be gone .
Madam , you must come to your uncle . Yonder 's old coil at home . It is proved my Lady Hero hath been falsely accused , the Prince and Claudio mightily abused , and Don John is the author of all , who is fled and gone . Will you come presently ?
O nuncle , court holy water in a dry house is better than this rainwater out o ' door . Good nuncle , in , and ask thy daughters blessing . Here 's a night pities neither wise man nor fool .
Well , well , We shall thrive now . --Seest thou , my good fellow ? Go put on thy defenses .
Ay , my commander . When I presented Ceres , I thought to have told thee of it , but I feared Lest I might anger thee .
Stay till I have read the letter .
Here we . And if tomorrow Our navy thrive , I have an absolute hope Our landmen will stand up .
Give first admittance to th ' ambassadors . My news shall be the fruit to that great feast .
If by your art , my dearest father , you have Put the wild waters in this roar , allay them . The sky , it seems , would pour down stinking pitch , But that the sea , mounting to th ' welkin 's cheek , Dashes the fire out . Oh , I have suffered With those that I saw suffer . A brave vessel Who had , no doubt , some noble creature in her Dashed all to pieces . Oh , the cry did knock Against my very heart ! Poor souls , they perished . Had I been any god of power , I would Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere It should the good ship so have swallowed and The fraughting souls within her .
Wormwood , wormwood .
This is as strange a maze as e' er men trod , And there is in this business more than nature Was ever conduct of . Some oracle Must rectify our knowledge .
Messala , This is my birthday , as this very day Was Cassius born . Give me thy hand , Messala . Be thou my witness that against my will , As Pompey was , am I compelled to set Upon one battle all our liberties .
Come , sir , which men shall I have ?
With his mouth full of news .
Most excellent accomplished lady , the heavens rain odors on you !
Content with Hermia ? No. I do repent The tedious minutes I with her have spent . Not Hermia but Helena I love . Who will not change a raven for a dove ? The will of man is by his reason swayed , And reason says you are the worthier maid .
It shall be called " Bottom 's Dream " because it hath no bottom . And I will sing it in the latter end of a play before the duke . Peradventure , to make it the more gracious , I shall sing it at her death .
Remember it , my lord ?
Ay , or I 'll cudgel him and make him cry " O ! "
Relent , sweet Hermia --And , Lysander , yield Thy crazed title to my certain right .
By the white hand of my lady , he 's a gallant prince .
How came we ashore ?
Noble Sebastian , Thou let 'st thy fortune sleep --die , rather -- wink 'st Whiles thou art waking .
Your castle is surprised , your wife and babes Savagely slaughtered . To relate the manner , Were , on the quarry of these murdered deer To add the death of you .
Be of good cheer , mother . How fares your Grace ?
What art thou that dost grumble there i ' th ' straw ? Come forth .
Know you any , Hero ?
" Imprimis , a loose - bodied gown -- "
But why did he swear he would come this morning , and comes not ?
Make me not offended In your distrust .
Oh ! My fear interprets . What , is he dead ?
Let it alone . I 'll make other shift . You 'll be a fool still .
Cousins , I hope the days are near at hand That chambers will be safe .
If the scorn of your bright eyne Have power to raise such love in mine , Alack , in me what strange effect Would they work in mild aspect ? Whiles you chid me , I did love . How then might your prayers move ? He that brings this love to thee Little knows this love in me , And by him seal up thy mind Whether that thy youth and kind Will the faithful offer take Of me , and all that I can make , Or else by him my love deny , And then I 'll study how to die .
Both your majesties Might , by the sovereign power you have of us , Put your dread pleasures more into command Than to entreaty .
A traveler . By my faith , you have great reason to be sad . I fear you have sold your own lands to see other men 's . Then to have seen much and to have nothing is to have rich eyes and poor hands .
Fie , fie ! Unknit that threat'ning unkind brow And dart not scornful glances from those eyes To wound thy lord , thy king , thy governor . It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads , Confounds thy fame as whirlwinds shake fair buds , And in no sense is meet or amiable . A woman moved is like a fountain troubled , Muddy , ill - seeming , thick , bereft of beauty , And while it is so , none so dry or thirsty Will deign to sip or touch one drop of it . Thy husband is thy lord , thy life , thy keeper , Thy head , thy sovereign , one that cares for thee , And for thy maintenance commits his body To painful labor both by sea and land , To watch the night in storms , the day in cold , Whilst thou liest warm at home , secure and safe , And craves no other tribute at thy hands But love , fair looks and true obedience -- Too little payment for so great a debt . Such duty as the subject owes the prince , Even such a woman oweth to her husband . And when she is froward , peevish , sullen , sour , And not obedient to his honest will , What is she but a foul contending rebel And graceless traitor to her loving lord ? I am ashamed that women are so simple To offer war where they should kneel for peace ; Or seek for rule , supremacy and sway When they are bound to serve , love , and obey . Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth , Unapt to toil and trouble in the world , But that our soft conditions and our hearts Should well agree with our external parts ? Come , come , you froward and unable worms !
As fat as butter .
Methought I had , and often did I strive To yield the ghost , but still the envious flood Stopped in my soul and would not let it forth To find the empty , vast , and wand'ring air , But smothered it within my panting bulk , Who almost burst to belch it in the sea .
Have you your father 's leave ? What says Polonius ?
Ho , who 's here ?
What do you say , Cesario? --Good my lord --
Prithee , see there ! Behold ! Look ! Lo ! How say you ? Why , what care I ? If thou canst nod , speak too . If charnel houses and our graves must send Those that we bury back , our monuments Shall be the maws of kites .
This last day was a shrewd one to ' s .
Gentlemen , my master Antonio is at his house and desires to speak with you both .
To bind me or undo me , one of them . -- Signior Leonato , truth it is , good Signior , Your niece regards me with an eye of favor .
And so success of mischief shall be born , And heir from heir shall hold this quarrel up Whiles England shall have generation .
Tut man , one fire burns out another 's burning . One pain is lessened by another 's anguish . Turn giddy , and be helped by backward turning . One desperate grief cures with another 's languish . Take thou some new infection to thy eye , And the rank poison of the old will die .
You have no cause .
Why , mistress , sure my master is horn mad .
I have offended reputation , A most unnoble swerving .
Why no , boy . Nothing can be made out of nothing .
I pray you , is Signor Montanto returned from the wars or no ?
Not so , my lord . For his valor cannot carry his discretion , and the fox carries the goose .
Fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you !
Up , sir , go with me . I charge thee in the Prince 's name , obey .
All studies here I solemnly defy , Save how to gall and pinch this Bolingbroke . And that same sword - and - buckler Prince of Wales -- But that I think his father loves him not And would be glad he met with some mischance -- I would have him poisoned with a pot of ale .
Kind gentlemen , let 's go see poor Cassio dressed . -- Come , mistress , you must tell 's another tale . Emilia , run you to the citadel And tell my lord and lady what hath happed . -- Will you go on afore ? This is the night That either makes me or fordoes me quite .
And now dispatch we toward the court , my lords . I hear the King my father is sore sick . Our news shall go before us to his Majesty , Which , cousin , you shall bear to comfort him , And we with sober speed will follow you .
Quoth who ?
Soft ! Who comes here ? A friend of Antony 's .
Then is courtesy a turncoat . But it is certain I am loved of all ladies , only you excepted . And I would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard heart , for truly I love none .
Dear sovereign , hear me speak .
Nay , pursue him now , lest the device take air and taint .
" Thank God . " A good answer . Art rich ?
Peace ! Stir not .
Nay , he is dead , and slain by Edward 's hands .
Sir , most heedfully .
O woeful time .
When we our betters see bearing our woes , We scarcely think our miseries our foes . Who alone suffers , suffers most i ' th ' mind , Leaving free things and happy shows behind . But then the mind much sufferance doth o'erskip When grief hath mates and bearing fellowship . How light and portable my pain seems now When that which makes me bend makes the king bow . He childed as I fathered . Tom , away ! Mark the high noises and thyself bewray When false opinion , whose wrong thought defiles thee , In thy just proof repeals and reconciles thee . What will hap more tonight , safe 'scape the king ! Lurk , lurk .
And not a jot of " Tranio " in your mouth . Tranio is changed into Lucentio .
Mother , you have my father much offended .
You have done that you should be sorry for . There is no terror , Cassius , in your threats , For I am armed so strong in honesty That they pass by me as the idle wind , Which I respect not . I did send to you For certain sums of gold , which you denied me , For I can raise no money by vile means . By heaven , I had rather coin my heart And drop my blood for drachmas than to wring From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash By any indirection . I did send To you for gold to pay my legions , Which you denied me . Was that done like Cassius ? Should I have answered Caius Cassius so ? When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous To lock such rascal counters from his friends , Be ready , gods , with all your thunderbolts . Dash him to pieces !
A rescue , a rescue !
What mean you , Caesar ? Think you to walk forth ? You shall not stir out of your house today .
Then let it do at once The thing why thou hast drawn it .
Is it good morrow , lords ?
What noise is this ? Give me my long sword , ho !
The first , of gold , who this inscription bears : " Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire . " The second , silver , which this promise carries : " Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves . " This third , dull lead , with warning all as blunt : " Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath . " How shall I know if I do choose the right ?
It is the stars , The stars above us , govern our conditions . Else one self mate and mate could not beget Such different issues . You spoke not with her since ?
By thee ; and this thou didst return from him : That he did buffet thee and , in his blows , Denied my house for his , me for his wife .
Why , do not your courtier 's hands sweat ? And is not the grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of a man ? Shallow , shallow . A better instance , I say . Come .
Your Grace may do your pleasure .
Mass , I cannot tell .
No , my most wronged sister . Cleopatra Hath nodded him to her . He hath given his empire Up to a whore ; who now are levying The kings o ' th ' earth for war . He hath assembled Bocchus , the King of Libya ; Archelaus , Of Cappadocia ; Philadelphos , King Of Paphlagonia ; the Thracian king , Adallas ; King Manchus of Arabia ; King of Pont ; Herod of Jewry ; Mithridates , King Of Comagen ; Polemon and Amyntas , The Kings of Mede and Lycaonia , With a more larger list of scepters .
I ' th ' common showplace , where they exercise . His sons he there proclaimed the kings of kings : Great Media , Parthia , and Armenia He gave to Alexander ; to Ptolemy he assigned Syria , Cilicia , and Phoenicia . She In th ' habiliments of the goddess Isis That day appeared , and oft before gave audience , As ' tis reported , so .
He 's married , madam .
O brave monster ! Lead the way .
Come , sirs .
Ay , and a subtle , as he most learnedly delivered .
I 'll overtake you . --
No cause , no cause .
Yes , they have .
No mind that 's honest But in it shares some woe , though the main part Pertains to you alone .
Lo where he comes . --Come hither to me , Harry . -- Depart the chamber . Leave us here alone .
I beseech you .
Why , how dost thou , man ? What is the matter with thee ?
He misses not much .
Is there no pity sitting in the clouds That sees into the bottom of my grief?- - O sweet my mother , cast me not away ! Delay this marriage for a month , a week . Or , if you do not , make the bridal bed In that dim monument where Tybalt lies .
Who , he ? He was some hilding fellow that had stolen The horse he rode on and , upon my life , Spoke at a venture . Look , here comes more news .
He named Sebastian . I my brother know Yet living in my glass . Even such and so In favor was my brother , and he went
Some of your French crowns have no hair at all , and then you will play barefaced . --But masters , here are your parts . And I am to entreat you , request you , and desire you to con them by tomorrow night and meet me in the palace wood , a mile without the town , by moonlight . There will we rehearse , for if we meet in the city we shall be dogged with company , and our devices known . In the meantime I will draw a bill of properties such as our play wants . I pray you , fail me not .
Yes , bring me word , boy , if thy lord look well , For he went sickly forth . And take good note What Caesar doth , what suitors press to him . Hark , boy ! What noise is that ?
It must , of force .
Helena , adieu . As you on him , Demetrius dote on you !
With naught but truth . I have wasted myself out of my means . The jewels you have had from me to deliver Desdemona would half have corrupted a votaress . You have told me she hath received them and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden respect and acquaintance , but I find none .
Our expectation hath this day an end . The Dauphin , whom of succors we entreated , Returns us that his powers are yet not ready To raise so great a siege . Therefore , great King , We yield our town and lives to thy soft mercy . Enter our gates , dispose of us and ours , For we no longer are defensible .
Whither is he going ?
Why " Heart 's ease ? "
Oh , yes , and went between us very oft .
To try thy eloquence now ' tis time . Dispatch . From Antony win Cleopatra . Promise , And in our name , what she requires . Add more , From thine invention , offers . Women are not In their best fortunes strong , but want will perjure The ne'er - touched vestal . Try thy cunning , Thidias . Make thine own edict for thy pains , which we Will answer as a law .
This fellow doth not stand upon points .
Ay , is ' t , I warrant him . Do but read .
Let us haste to hear it , And call the noblest to the audience . For me , with sorrow I embrace my fortune . I have some rights of memory in this kingdom , Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me .
Rob me the Exchequer the first thing thou dost , and do it with unwashed hands too .
' Tis now struck twelve . Get thee to bed , Francisco .
O ! We are spoiled and yonder he is ! Deny him , forswear him , or else we are all undone .
Say , if my father render fair return , It is against my will , for I desire Nothing but odds with England . To that end , As matching to his youth and vanity , I did present him with the Paris balls .
A proper man .
There 's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple . If the ill spirit have so fair a house , Good things will strive to dwell with ' t .
Gramercy , fellow . There , drink that for me .
Aha ! Does she so ?
Has he , masters ? I fear there will a worse come in his place .
Ay .
Must I bite ?
So please my lord the duke and all the court , To quit the fine for one half of his goods I am content , so he will let me have The other half in use to render it Upon his death unto the gentleman That lately stole his daughter . Two things provided more : that for this favor He presently become a Christian ; The other , that he do record a gift Here in the court , of all he dies possessed , Unto his son Lorenzo and his daughter .
I am accursed to rob in that thief 's company . The rascal hath removed my horse and tied him I know not where . If I travel but four foot by the square further afoot , I shall break my wind . Well , I doubt not but to die a fair death for all this , if I 'scape hanging for killing that rogue . I have forsworn his company hourly any time this two - and - twenty years , and yet I am bewitched with the rogue 's company . If the rascal hath not given me medicines to make me love him , I 'll be hanged . It could not be else : I have drunk medicines . -- Poins ! Hal ! A plague upon you both . --Bardolph! Peto ! -- I 'll starve ere I 'll rob a foot further . An ' twere not as good a deed as drink to turn true man and to leave these rogues , I am the veriest varlet that ever chewed with a tooth . Eight yards of uneven ground is threescore and ten miles afoot with me , and the stony - hearted villains know it well enough . A plague upon it when thieves cannot be true one to another !
I tell thee truly , herald , I know not if the day be ours or no , For yet a many of your horsemen peer And gallop o'er the field .
What a long night is this ! I will not change my horse with any that treads but on four pasterns . Ca ha ! He bounds from the earth , as if his entrails were hairs , le cheval volant , the Pegasus , qui a les narines de feu . When I bestride him , I soar ; I am a hawk ; he trots the air . The earth sings when he touches it . The basest horn of his hoof is more musical than the pipe of Hermes .
I 'll after him , and see the event of this .
I was forbid it . When time shall serve , let but the herald cry , And I 'll appear again .
Let him approach .
Tell the clock there . Give me a calendar . He looks in an almanac Who saw the sun today ?
Say to me whose fortunes shall rise higher , Caesar 's or mine ?
Nothing but a colossus can do thee that friendship . Say thy prayers , and farewell .
Monster , come , put some lime upon your fingers , and away with the rest .
Sick now ? Droop now ? This sickness doth infect The very lifeblood of our enterprise . ' Tis catching hither , even to our camp . He writes me here that inward sickness -- And that his friends by deputation Could not so soon be drawn , nor did he think it meet To lay so dangerous and dear a trust On any soul removed but on his own ; Yet doth he give us bold advertisement That with our small conjunction we should on To see how fortune is disposed to us , For , as he writes , there is no quailing now , Because the King is certainly possessed Of all our purposes . What say you to it ?
It shall suffice , sir .
A poor unfortunate beggar .
Laertes , I must commune with your grief , Or you deny me right . Go but apart , Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will . And they shall hear and judge ' twixt you and me . If by direct or by collateral hand They find us touched , we will our kingdom give , Our crown , our life , and all that we can ours , To you in satisfaction . But if not , Be you content to lend your patience to us , And we shall jointly labor with your soul To give it due content .
Peace , you fat guts ! Lie down , lay thine ear close to the ground , and list if thou canst hear the tread of travelers .
Why , who cries out on pride That can therein tax any private party ? Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea Till that the weary very means do ebb ?
Which is the villain ? Let me see his eyes , That , when I note another man like him , I may avoid him . Which of these is he ?
To think , my lord , if you delight not in man , what Lenten entertainment the players shall receive from you . We coted them on the way , and hither are they coming to offer you service .
Come , my fair Cordelia .
Who would be jealous , then , of such a one ? No evil lost is wailed when it is gone .
So , slave , hence !
Oui , vraiment , sauf votre Grace , ainsi dit-il .
Possess it , I 'll make answer . But I had rather fast from all four days Than drink so much in one .
Thou dost conspire against thy friend , Iago , If thou but think 'st him wronged and mak 'st his ear A stranger to thy thoughts .
Good sir , whose powers are these ?
Yet , for all this , say not that Percy 's dead . I see a strange confession in thine eye . Thou shak 'st thy head and hold 'st it fear or sin To speak a truth . If he be slain , say so . The tongue offends not that reports his death ; And he doth sin that doth belie the dead , Not he which says the dead is not alive . Yet the first bringer of unwelcome news Hath but a losing office , and his tongue Sounds ever after as a sullen bell Remembered tolling a departing friend .
Compounded it with dust , whereto ' tis kin .
' Tis pitiful , but yet Iago knows That she with Cassio hath the act of shame A thousand times committed . Cassio confessed it , And she did gratify his amorous works With that recognizance and pledge of love Which I first gave her . I saw it in his hand , It was a handkerchief , an antique token My father gave my mother .
Peace , peace ! You durst not so have tempted him .
It is foul weather in us all , good sir , When you are cloudy .
How now ? What 's the matter ? Part .
If not , we ready are to try our fortunes To the last man .
If you went in pain , master , this knave would go sore .
Sir , I am too old to learn . Call not your stocks for me . I serve the king , On whose employment I was sent to you . You shall do small respect , show too bold malice Against the grace and person of my master , Stocking his messenger .
But the great one that goes up the hill , let him draw thee after . When a wise man gives thee better counsel , give me mine again . I would have none but knaves follow it since a fool gives it . That sir which serves and seeks for gain , And follows but for form , Will pack when it begins to rain And leave thee in the storm . But I will tarry . The fool will stay . And let the wise man fly . The knave turns fool that runs away ; The fool , no knave , perdie .
Come , one for me .
This was looked for at your hand , and this was balked . The double gilt of this opportunity you let time wash off , and you are now sailed into the north of my lady 's opinion , where you will hang like an icicle on a Dutchman 's beard , unless you do redeem it by some laudable attempt either of valor or policy .
Sound !
Call you me " fair " ? That " fair " again unsay . Demetrius loves your fair . O happy fair ! Your eyes are lodestars , and your tongue 's sweet air More tunable than lark to shepherd 's ear When wheat is green , when hawthorn buds appear . Sickness is catching . Oh , were favor so , Yours would I catch , fair Hermia , ere I go . My ear should catch your voice . My eye , your eye . My tongue should catch your tongue 's sweet melody . Were the world mine , Demetrius being bated , The rest I 'd give to be to you translated .
Let ' em enter .
I know it well , sir . Lo , here 's the chain . I thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine ; The chain unfinished made me stay thus long .
Look up , my lord .
Sirrah , I 'll teach thee a speech .
Heigh , my hearts ! Cheerly , cheerly , my hearts ! Yare ! Yare ! Take in the topsail . --Tend to th ' master 's whistle . --Blow , till thou burst thy wind , if room enough !
No , my good lord .
Give me thy arm . Poor Tom shall lead thee .
What noise is here ?
I see a man here needs not live by shifts When in the streets he meets such golden gifts . I 'll to the mart , and there for Dromio stay . If any ship put out , then straight away .
To you all three , The senators alone of this great world , Chief factors for the gods : I do not know Wherefore my father should revengers want , Having a son and friends , since Julius Caesar , Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted , There saw you laboring for him . What was ' t That moved pale Cassius to conspire ? And what Made the all - honored , honest Roman Brutus , With the armed rest , courtiers of beauteous freedom , To drench the Capitol , but that they would Have one man but a man ? And that is it Hath made me rig my navy , at whose burden The angered ocean foams , with which I meant To scourge th ' ingratitude that despiteful Rome Cast on my noble father .
Do not abuse me .
I have drunk but one cup tonight , and that was craftily qualified too , and behold what innovation it makes here . I am unfortunate in the infirmity , and dare not task my weakness with any more .
My name is Pistol called .
These fifteen years ! By my fay , a goodly nap . But did I never speak of all that time ?
No more yet of this , For ' tis a chronicle of day by day , Not a relation for a breakfast , nor Befitting this first meeting . Welcome , sir . This cell' s my court . Here have I few attendants And subjects none abroad . Pray you , look in . My dukedom since you have given me again , I will requite you with as good a thing , At least bring forth a wonder to content ye As much as me my dukedom .
Is that the naked fellow ?
For England ?
Go and commend me to my brother Cassius . Bid him set on his powers betimes before , And we will follow .
Thou think 'st ' tis much that this contentious storm Invades us to the skin . So ' tis to thee . But where the greater malady is fixed The lesser is scarce felt . Thou'dst shun a bear , But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea Thou'dst meet the bear i ' th ' mouth . When the mind 's free , The body 's delicate . The tempest in my mind Doth from my senses take all feeling else Save what beats there -- filial ingratitude . Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand For lifting food to ' t ? But I will punish home . No , I will weep no more . In such a night To shut me out ! Pour on , I will endure . In such a night as this ! O Regan , Goneril , Your old kind father , whose frank heart gave all -- Oh , that way madness lies . Let me shun that . No more of that .
So please your Majesty , I would I could Quit all offenses with as clear excuse As well as I am doubtless I can purge Myself of many I am charged withal . Yet such extenuation let me beg As , in reproof of many tales devised , Which oft the ear of greatness needs must hear , By smiling pickthanks and base newsmongers , I may for some things true , wherein my youth Hath faulty wandered and irregular , Find pardon on my true submission .
Get me some poison , Iago , this night . I 'll not expostulate with her , lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again --This night , Iago !
Words , words , words .
Run , run , O , run !
What are you ?
What says your Grace ?
Prithee , honey - sweet husband , let me bring thee to Staines .
Me , a groat ?
Adieu , brave Moor . Use Desdemona well .
Go bear this letter to Lord John of Lancaster , To my brother John ; this to my Lord of Westmoreland .
Let her come in .
Why , friends , you go to do you know not what . Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves ? Alas , you know not . I must tell you then . You have forgot the will I told you of .
Then , my lord , Unto your Grace do I in chief address The substance of my speech . If that rebellion Came like itself , in base and abject routs , Led on by bloody youth , guarded with rage , And countenanced by boys and beggary -- I say , if damn 'd commotion so appeared In his true , native , and most proper shape , You , reverend father , and these noble lords Had not been here to dress the ugly form Of base and bloody insurrection
True ! O God !
What a blunt fellow is this grown to be ! He was quick mettle when he went to school .
Hortensio , to what end are all these words ?
Pardon , good Mercutio , my business was great , and in such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy .
Asleep , my love ? What , dead , my dove ? O Pyramus , arise ! Speak , speak . Quite dumb ? Dead , dead ? A tomb Must cover thy sweet eyes . These lily lips , This cherry nose , These yellow cowslip cheeks Are gone , are gone . Lovers , make moan . His eyes were green as leeks . O Sisters three , Come , come to me With hands as pale as milk . Lay them in gore , Since you have shore With shears his thread of silk . Tongue , not a word . Come , trusty sword . Come , blade , my breast imbrue . And , farewell , friends . Thus Thisbe ends . Adieu , adieu , adieu .
What might import my sister 's letter to him ?
Shall we go draw our numbers and set on ?
It was well done , and thou shalt sleep again . I will not hold thee long . If I do live , I will be good to thee .
Fie , what an indirect and peevish course Is this of hers ! --Lord Cardinal , will your Grace Persuade the queen to send the duke of York Unto his princely brother presently?- - If she deny , Lord Hastings , go with him , And from her jealous arms pluck him perforce .
Thou art a villain !
You whoreson candle - mine , you how vilely did you speak of me even now before this honest , virtuous , civil gentlewoman !
" By and by " is easily said .
No , coz , I rather weep .
In such a night Did pretty Jessica , like a little shrew , Slander her love , and he forgave it her .
Against my will , I am sent to bid you come in to dinner .
More , more , I prithee , more .
Know then I came before you here a man prepared To take this offer , but Mark Antony Put me to some impatience . --Though I lose The praise of it by telling , you must know , When Caesar and your brother were at blows , Your mother came to Sicily and did find Her welcome friendly .
Against ill chances men are ever merry , But heaviness foreruns the good event .
Beat --
Better than I was . Hem .
To take him in the purging of his soul When he is fit and seasoned for his passage ? No. Up , sword , and know thou a more horrid hent . When he is drunk asleep , or in his rage , Or in th ' incestuous pleasure of his bed , At game a - swearing , or about some act That has no relish of salvation in ' t -- Then trip him , that his heels may kick at heaven , And that his soul may be as damned and black As hell , whereto it goes . My mother stays This physic but prolongs thy sickly days .
Miranda . --O my father , I have broke your hest to say so !
Come now , what masques , what dances shall we have To wear away this long age of three hours Between our after - supper and bedtime ? Where is our usual manager of mirth ? What revels are in hand ? Is there no play , To ease the anguish of a torturing hour ? Call Philostrate .
Hastings and Edward 's children , Grey and Rivers , Holy King Henry and thy fair son Edward , Vaughan , and all that have miscarried By underhand , corrupted , foul injustice , If that your moody , discontented souls Do through the clouds behold this present hour , Even for revenge mock my destruction . -- This is All Souls ' Day , fellow , is it not ?
Parted you in good terms ? Found you no displeasure in him by word or countenance ?
If she be black , and thereto have a wit , She 'll find a white that shall her blackness fit .
Hast thou the flower there ? Welcome , wanderer .
I cannot tarry . I knew a wench married in an afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit , and so may you , sir . And so adieu , sir . My master hath appointed me to go to Saint Luke 's to bid the priest be ready to come against you come with your appendix .
Ah , this thou shouldst have done And not have spoke on ' t ! In me ' tis villainy , In thee ' t had been good service . Thou must know , ' Tis not my profit that does lead mine honor ; Mine honor , it . Repent that e' er thy tongue Hath so betrayed thine act . Being done unknown , I should have found it afterwards well done , But must condemn it now . Desist , and drink .
Oh , when she had writ it and was reading it over , she found " Benedick " and " Beatrice " between the sheet ?
We hope no otherwise from your Majesty .
I cannot tell : I make it breed as fast . But note me , signor --
Exceedingly , my lord . It is very sultry -- as ' twere--I cannot tell how . My lord , his majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager on your head . Sir , this is the matter --
This is the matter . --Nurse , give leave awhile , We must talk in secret . --Nurse , come back again . I have remembered me . Thou 's hear our counsel . Thou know 'st my daughter 's of a pretty age .
Well then , take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man .
One , Kate , that you must kiss and be acquainted with . -- Where are my slippers ? Shall I have some water?- -
" Widow Dido " said you ? You make me study of that . She was of Carthage , not of Tunis .
A good shallow young fellow , he would have made a good pantler ; he would a ' chipped bread well .
Couple a gorge , that is the word . I defy thee again . O hound of Crete , think 'st thou my spouse to get ? No , to the spital go , And from the powd'ring tub of infamy Fetch forth the lazar kite of Cressid 's kind , Doll Tearsheet she by name , and her espouse .
That Julius Caesar was a famous man . With what his valor did enrich his wit , His wit set down to make his valor live . Death makes no conquest of this conqueror , For now he lives in fame , though not in life . I 'll tell you what , my cousin Buckingham --
Nay , I prithee stay a little . I hope this passionate humor of mine will change . It was wont to hold me but while one tells twenty .
If their singing answer your saying , by my faith , you say honestly .
And what of him , Tranio ?
I am Christophero Sly . Call not me " Honor " nor " Lordship . " I ne'er drank sack in my life . An if you give me any conserves , give me conserves of beef . Ne'er ask me what raiment I 'll wear , for I have no more doublets than backs , no more stockings than legs , nor no more shoes than feet , nay sometime more feet than shoes , or such shoes as my toes look through the over - leather .
I 'll wait upon them . I am ready .
To you I give myself , for I am yours . To you I give myself , for I am yours .
What in the contrary ?
Take this from this if this be otherwise . If circumstances lead me , I will find Where truth is hid , though it were hid indeed Within the center .
You cannot , if my heart were in your hand , Nor shall not , whilst ' tis in my custody .
Mistress Mary , if you prized my lady 's favor at anything more than contempt , you would not give means for this uncivil rule . She shall know of it , by this hand .
Marry sir , by many a wind instrument that I know . But , masters , here 's money for you , and the general so likes your music that he desires you , for love 's sake , to make no more noise with it .
Sweet lord , you play me false .
Fare thee well .
Spakest thou of Juliet ? How is it with her ? Doth she not think me an old murderer , Now I have stained the childhood of our joy With blood removed but little from her own ? Where is she ? And how doth she ? And what says My concealed lady to our canceled love ?
I am dying , Egypt , dying . Only I here importune death awhile , until Of many thousand kisses the poor last I lay upon thy lips .
' Twas I , but ' tis not I. I do not shame To tell you what I was , since my conversion So sweetly tastes , being the thing I am .
That thought abuses you .
I believe we must leave the killing out , when all is done .
Temperance was a delicate wench .
How well my comfort is revived by this !
Honor , riches , marriage , blessing , Long continuance , and increasing , Hourly joys be still upon you . Juno sings her blessings on you .
Have you scored me ? Well .
You are a royal one , and we obey you .
Geese , villain ?
Who is that at the door that keeps all this noise ?
Possess us , possess us , tell us something of him .
To whom in all this presence speaks your Grace ?
O mistress mine , where are you roaming ? O , stay and hear ! Your true love 's coming , That can sing both high and low : Trip no further , pretty sweeting . Journeys end in lovers meeting , Every wise man 's son doth know .
Well then , once in my days I 'll be a madcap .
Stanley , he is your wife 's son . Well , look unto it .
I ' faith , sweetheart , methinks now you are in an excellent good temperality . Your pulsidge beats as extraordinarily as heart would desire , and your color , I warrant you , is as red as any rose , in good truth , la . But , i ' faith , you have drunk too much canaries , and that 's a marvellous searching wine , and it perfumes the blood ere one can say " What 's this ? " How do you now ?
I am so much a fool , should I stay longer It would be my disgrace and your discomfort . I take my leave at once .
Part , fools ! Put up your swords . You know not what you do .
Why so , being gone , I am a man again . Pray you sit still .
Nor I , my lord , in faith .
I would we could do so , for her benefits are mightily misplaced , and the bountiful blind woman doth most mistake in her gifts to women .
O cruel ! O you gods !
I love thee not .
I am so . I do love it better than laughing .
Why , sir , I gave the money for the rope .
Prison , my lord ?
Oh , speak of that . That do I long to hear .
It was not brought me , my lord . There 's the cunning of it . I found it thrown in at the casement of my closet .
You are the better at proverbs , by how much " A fool 's bolt is soon shot . "
He is a very proper man .
I do never use it .
That " only " came well in . Sir , list to me : I am my father 's heir and only son . If I may have your daughter to my wife , I 'll leave her houses three or four as good , Within rich Pisa walls , as any one Old Signior Gremio has in Padua , Besides two thousand ducats by the year Of fruitful land , all which shall be her jointure . -- What , have I pinched you , Signior Gremio ?
Yes , here I tender it for him in the court -- Yea , twice the sum . If that will not suffice , I will be bound to pay it ten times o'er , On forfeit of my hands , my head , my heart . If this will not suffice , it must appear That malice bears down truth . -- And I beseech you , Wrest once the law to your authority . To do a great right , do a little wrong , And curb this cruel devil of his will .
One word , sweet Queen : Of Caesar seek your honor , with your safety --Oh !
I do not know , my lord .
Come on , gentle my lord , Sleek o'er your rugged looks . Be bright and jovial Among your guests tonight .
Thus I let you go And give you to the gods .
The third part , then , is drunk . Would it were all , That it might go on wheels !
I know thee well . How dost thou , my good fellow ?
Come on , I say , and first begin with her .
O sovereign mistress of true melancholy , The poisonous damp of night disponge upon me , That life , a very rebel to my will , May hang no longer on me . Throw my heart Against the flint and hardness of my fault , Which , being dried with grief , will break to powder And finish all foul thoughts . O Antony , Nobler than my revolt is infamous , Forgive me in thine own particular , But let the world rank me in register A master - leaver and a fugitive . O Antony ! O Antony !
And sowing the kernels of it in the sea , bring forth more islands .
It is perchance that you yourself were saved .
Thou didst well , for wisdom cries out in the streets and no man regards it .
I would your grace would constrain me to tell .
I prithee , pretty York , who told thee this ?
Sir , I thought it fit To send the old and miserable king To some retention and appointed guard -- Whose age has charms in it , whose title more -- To pluck the common bosom on his side , An turn our impressed lances in our eyes Which do command them . With him I sent the queen , My reason all the same , and they are ready Tomorrow or at further space t ' appear Where you shall hold your session . At this time We sweat and bleed . The friend hath lost his friend , And the best quarrels , in the heat , are cursed By those that feel their sharpness . The question of Cordelia and her father Requires a fitter place .
It is his .
Then belike my children shall have no names . Prithee , how many boys and wenches must I have ?
To offend and judge are distinct offices And of opposed natures .
Art thou thus boldened , man , by thy distress Or else a rude despiser of good manners , That in civility thou seem 'st so empty ?
No , for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that does those things . Well , heaven 's above all , and there be souls must be saved , and there be souls must not be saved .
A combless cock , so Kate will be my hen .
Hence ! Hang not on my garments .
Presently . Therefore confess thee freely of thy sin , For to deny each article with oath Cannot remove nor choke the strong conception That I do groan withal . Thou art to die .
There 's blood upon thy face .
No , I will sit and watch here by the King .
God make your Majesty joyful , as you have been .
You taught me language , and my profit on ' t Is I know how to curse . The red plague rid you For learning me your language !
No , Cassio is not killed .
That you have wronged me doth appear in this : You have condemned and noted Lucius Pella For taking bribes here of the Sardians , Wherein my letters , praying on his side Because I knew the man , were slighted off .
A Daniel , still say I , a second Daniel ! -- I thank thee , Jew , for teaching me that word .
This way , my lord .
No.
Over hill , over dale , Thorough bush , thorough brier , Over park , over pale , Thorough flood , thorough fire . I do wander everywhere Swifter than the moon 's sphere . And I serve the fairy queen To dew her orbs upon the green . The cowslips tall her pensioners be . In their gold coats spots you see . Those be rubies , fairy favors . In those freckles live their savors . I must go seek some dewdrops here And hang a pearl in every cowslip 's ear . Farewell , thou lob of spirits . I 'll be gone . Our queen and all our elves come here anon .
Nothing but sit and sit , and eat and eat !
By Dromio ?
Good morrow , good Lieutenant . I am sorry For your displeasure , but all will sure be well . The general and his wife are talking of it , And she speaks for you stoutly . The Moor replies That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus And great affinity , and that in wholesome wisdom He might not but refuse you . But he protests he loves you And needs no other suitor but his likings To take the safest occasion by the front To bring you in again .
Be it as you shall privately determine , Either for her stay or going . Th ' affair cries haste And speed must answer it .
My sovereign lord , bestow yourself with speed . The French are bravely in their battles set , And will with all expedience charge on us .
' Tis good for men to love their present pains Upon example . So the spirit is eased . And when the mind is quickened , out of doubt , The organs , though defunct and dead before , Break up their drowsy grave and newly move , With casted slough and fresh legerity . Lend me thy cloak , Sir Thomas . Brothers both , Commend me to the princes in our camp , Do my good morrow to them , and anon Desire them all to my pavilion .
Alas , why would you heap this care on me ? I am unfit for state and majesty . I do beseech you , take it not amiss ; I cannot , nor I will not , yield to you .
Good morrow , masters . Each his several way .
" You must amend your drunkenness . "
Me , uncle ?
A trusty villain , sir , that very oft , When I am dull with care and melancholy , Lightens my humor with his merry jests . What , will you walk with me about the town And then go to my inn and dine with me ?
' Tis a wonder , by your leave , she will be tamed so .
Fore heaven , an excellent song .
Did gage them both in an unjust behalf To put down Richard , that sweet lovely rose , An plant this thorn , this canker , Bolingbroke ? And shall it in more shame be further spoken That you are fooled , discarded , and shook off By him for whom these shames you underwent ? No , yet time serves wherein you may redeem Your banished honors and restore yourselves Into the good thoughts of the world again , Revenge the jeering and disdain 'd contempt Of this proud King , who studies day and night To answer all the debt he owes to you Even with the bloody payment of your deaths . Therefore I say --
Say , if th ' hadst rather hear it from our mouths , Or from our masters ' .
He is no crescent , and his horns are invisible within the circumference .
Wilt come ? I 'll follow , Stephano .
Good pilgrim , you do wrong your hand too much , Which mannerly devotion shows in this , For saints have hands that pilgrims ' hands do touch , And palm to palm is holy palmers ' kiss .
No , ' twas the vane on the house .
Draw thy tool ! Here comes of the house of Montagues .
Then , Brutus , I have much mistook your passion , By means whereof this breast of mine hath buried Thoughts of great value , worthy cogitations . Tell me , good Brutus , can you see your face ?
Both of you Know Banquo was your enemy .
What said Northumberland as touching Richmond ?
A foutre for thine office ! -- Sir John , thy tender lambkin now is king . Harry the Fifth 's the man . I speak the truth . When Pistol lies , do this and fig me , like The bragging Spaniard .
But yet I would your father had been here . The quality and hair of our attempt Brooks no division . It will be thought By some that know not why he is away That wisdom , loyalty , and mere dislike Of our proceedings kept the Earl from hence . And think how such an apprehension May turn the tide of fearful faction And breed a kind of question in our cause . For well you know , we of the off'ring side Must keep aloof from strict arbitrament , And stop all sight - holes , every loop from whence The eye of reason may pry in upon us . This absence of your father 's draws a curtain That shows the ignorant a kind of fear Before not dreamt of .
Why , then are you no maiden . --Leonato , I am sorry you must hear . Upon mine honor , Myself , my brother , and this grieved count Did see her , hear her , at that hour last night Talk with a ruffian at her chamber window Who hath indeed , most like a liberal villain , Confessed the vile encounters they have had A thousand times in secret .
Stay ! Speak , speak ! I charge thee , speak !
Very easily possible . He wears his faith but as the fashion of his hat ; it ever changes with the next block .
Now , as I am a true woman , holland of eight shillings an ell . You owe money here besides , Sir John , for your diet and by - drinkings , and money lent you , four and twenty pound .
Here , sir .
Master Gower , shall I entreat you with me to dinner ?
My countryman , but yet I know him not .
At Basingstoke , my lord .
Amen . And make me die a good old man ! That is the butt end of a mother 's blessing ; I marvel that her Grace did leave it out .
I did so , and went further , which is now Our point of second meeting . Do you find Your patience so predominant in your nature That you can let this go ? Are you so gospeled To pray for this good man and for his issue , Whose heavy hand hath bowed you to the grave And beggared yours forever ?
He has almost supped . Why have you left the chamber ?
You are welcome , masters , welcome , all ! --I am glad to see thee well . --Welcome , good friends . --O old friend ? Why , thy face is valenced since I saw thee last . Comest thou to beard me in Denmark? --What , my young lady and mistress ! By ' r Lady , your ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last , by the altitude of a chopine . Pray God , your voice , like a piece of uncurrent gold , be not cracked within the ring . --Masters , you are all welcome . We 'll e' en to ' t like French falconers , fly at any thing we see . We 'll have a speech straight . Come , give us a taste of your quality . Come , a passionate speech .
Shall I entreat a word ?
I was seven of the nine days out of the wonder before you came , for look here what I found on a palm tree . I was never so berhymed since Pythagoras ' time , that I was an Irish rat , which I can hardly remember .
Well , may you see things well done there . Adieu , Lest our old robes sit easier than our new !
Mistress and master , you have oft inquired After the shepherd that complained of love , Who you saw sitting by me on the turf , Praising the proud disdainful shepherdess That was his mistress .
I like the new tire within excellently , if the hair were a thought browner ; and your gown 's a most rare fashion , i ' faith . I saw the Duchess of Milan 's gown that they praise so .
Oh , say so , and so be !
I am glad on ' t . What a fearful night is this ! There 's two or three of us have seen strange sights .
The word is too good to paint out her wickedness . I could say she were worse . Think you of a worse title , and I will fit her to it . Wonder not till further warrant . Go but with me tonight , you shall see her chamber window entered , even the night before her wedding day . If you love her then , tomorrow wed her . But it would better fit your honor to change your mind .
Oh , is this he ? The time will not allow the compliment Which very manners urges .
Anything .
Here comes the herald of the French , my liege .
Call for the music in the other room .
If you did , I care not .
You did .
How came he dead ? I 'll not be juggled with . To hell , allegiance ! Vows , to the blackest devil ! Conscience and grace , to the profoundest pit ! I dare damnation . To this point I stand That both the worlds I give to negligence . Let come what comes , only I 'll be revenged Most thoroughly for my father .
Not to a rage . Patience and sorrow strove Who should express her goodliest . You have seen Sunshine and rain at once -- her smiles and tears Were like a better way . Those happy smilets That played on her ripe lip seemed not to know What guests were in her eyes , which parted thence As pearls from diamonds dropped . In brief , Sorrow would be a rarity most beloved If all could so become it .
Everything is well .
Saying , " Cousin Toby , my fortunes having cast me on your niece give me this prerogative of speech -- "
My lord , my lord --
Hath Cassius lived To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus , When grief and blood ill-tempered vexeth him ?
They are his shards , and he their beetle .
You , to your rights With boot , and such addition as your honors Have more than merited . --All friends shall taste The wages of their virtue , and all foes The cup of their deservings . O , see , see !
Who is it like should lead his forces hither ?
Signor Bassanio , hear me . If I do not put on a sober habit , Talk with respect and swear but now and then , Wear prayer books in my pocket , look demurely -- Nay more . While grace is saying , hood mine eyes Thus with my hat , and sigh and say , " Amen " -- Use all the observance of civility Like one well studied in a sad ostent To please his grandam , never trust me more .
Master Fer . I 'll fer him , and firk him , and ferret him . Discuss the same in French unto him .
My lord , I 'll tell you that self bill is urged Which in th ' eleventh year of the last king 's reign Was like , and had indeed against us passed But that the scambling and unquiet time Did push it out of farther question .
What tongueless blocks were they ! Would not they speak ? Will not the mayor then and his brethren come ?
Nay , you must name his name , and half his face must be seen through the lion 's neck . And he himself must speak through , saying thus -- or to the same defect -- " Ladies , " or " Fair ladies , " " I would wish you " or " I would request you " or " I would entreat you " " not to fear , not to tremble , my life for yours . If you think I come hither as a lion , it were pity of my life . No , I am no such thing . I am a man as other men are . " And there indeed let him name his name , and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner .
Ay , his breast . So says the bond . Doth it not , noble judge ? " Nearest his heart " -- those are the very words .
Sirrah Biondello , go and entreat my wife To come to me forthwith .
O , yet defend me , friends . I am but hurt .
And what wilt thou do -- beg when that is spent ? Well , sir , get you in . I will not long be troubled with you . You shall have some part of your will . I pray you leave me .
Nay , very pale .
Villain , be sure thou prove my love a whore , Be sure of it . Give me the ocular proof Or by the worth of mine eternal soul Thou hadst been better have been born a dog Than answer my waked wrath !
For worms , brave Percy . Fare thee well , great heart . Ill - weaved ambition , how much art thou shrunk ! When that this body did contain a spirit , A kingdom for it was too small a bound , But now two paces of the vilest earth Is room enough . This earth that bears thee dead Bears not alive so stout a gentleman . If thou wert sensible of courtesy , I should not make so dear a show of zeal . But let my favors hide thy mangled face ; And even in thy behalf I 'll thank myself For doing these fair rites of tenderness . Adieu , and take thy praise with thee to heaven . Thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave , But not remembered in thy epitaph .
Alack , what heinous sin is it in me To be ashamed to be my father 's child ! But though I am a daughter to his blood , I am not to his manners . O Lorenzo , If thou keep promise , I shall end this strife , Become a Christian and thy loving wife .
Well , I 'll go with thee . Provide us all things necessary and meet me tomorrow night in Eastcheap . There I 'll sup . Farewell .
Go , get thee hence , for I will not away . --
O noble Caesar !
Ay , or any show that you will show him . Be not you ashamed to show , he 'll not shame to tell you what it means .
Cleopatra , Do not abuse my master 's bounty by Th ' undoing of yourself . Let the world see His nobleness well acted , which your death Will never let come forth .
I have eyes upon him , And his affairs come to me on the wind . Where is he now ?
How now ? What mean 'st thou , that thou help 'st me not ? By heavens , the duke shall know how slack you have been .
Your loves , as mine to you . Farewell .
You must bear with me . Pray you now , forget and forgive . I am old and foolish .
I pawned thee none . I promised you redress of these same grievances Whereof you did complain , which , by mine honor , I will perform with a most Christian care . But for you rebels , look to taste the due Meet for rebellion and such acts as yours . Most shallowly did you these arms commence , Fondly brought here , and foolishly sent hence . -- Strike up our drums ; pursue the scattered stray . God , and not we , hath safely fought today . -- Some guard these traitors to the block of death , Treason 's true bed and yielder - up of breath .
Marry , and did , sir : namely , e' en no time to recover hair lost by nature .
She hath been then more feared than harmed , my liege , For hear her but exampled by herself : When all her chivalry hath been in France And she a mourning widow of her nobles , She hath herself not only well defended But taken and impounded as a stray The king of Scots , whom she did send to France To fill King Edward 's fame with prisoner kings And make her chronicle as rich with praise As is the ooze and bottom of the sea With sunken wrack and sumless treasuries .
And in good time , Here comes Sir Richard Ratcliffe and the duke .
Then as my gift and thine own acquisition Worthily purchased , take my daughter . But If thou dost break her virgin knot before All sanctimonious ceremonies may With full and holy rite be ministered , No sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall To make this contract grow , but barren hate , Sour - eyed disdain , and discord shall bestrew The union of your bed with weeds so loathly That you shall hate it both . Therefore take heed , As Hymen 's lamps shall light you .
Pray God my news be worth a welcome , lord . The Earl of Westmoreland , seven thousand strong , Is marching hitherwards , with him Prince John .
The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles , the duke 's wrestler , which Charles in a moment threw him and broke three of his ribs , that there is little hope of life in him . So he served the second , and so the third . Yonder they lie , the poor old man their father making such pitiful dole over them that all the beholders take his part with weeping .
That way the noise is . Tyrant , show thy face ! If thou beest slain , and with no stroke of mine , My wife and children 's ghosts will haunt me still . I cannot strike at wretched kerns , whose arms Are hired to bear their staves . Either thou , Macbeth , Or else my sword with an unbattered edge I sheathe again undeeded . There thou shouldst be ; By this great clatter , one of the greatest note Seems bruited . Let me find him , Fortune , And more I beg not .
To thee , that hast nor honesty nor grace . When have I injured thee ? When done thee wrong?- - Or thee?- -Or thee ? Or any of your faction ? A plague upon you all ! His royal grace , Whom God preserve better than you would wish , Cannot be quiet scarce a breathing while But you must trouble him with lewd complaints .
There 's no offense , my lord .
A thing , my lord ?
How now , fellow ?
Is ' t possible ?
Hath Butler brought those horses from the sheriff ?
My pretty cousins , you mistake me both . I do lament the sickness of the king , As loath to lose him , not your father 's death . It were lost sorrow to wail one that 's lost .
Awake , and think our wrongs in Richard 's bosom Will conquer him ! Awake , and win the day .
Doth the King call ?
Why , these are very crotchets that he speaks ! Note notes , forsooth , and nothing .
We are no tyrant , but a Christian king , Unto whose grace our passion is as subject As is our wretches fettered in our prisons . Therefore with frank and with uncurbed plainness Tell us the Dauphin 's mind .
Fellow , where goest ?
I cannot wish the fault undone , the issue of it being so proper .
I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are . They 'll have me whipped for speaking true , thou'lt have me whipped for lying , and sometimes I am whipped for holding my peace . I had rather be any kind o ' thing than a fool . And yet I would not be thee , nuncle . Thou hast pared thy wit o ' both sides and left nothing i ' th ' middle . Here comes one o ' the parings .
Prove me , my gracious sovereign .
I am for you .
All the water in Wye cannot wash your Majesty 's Welsh plood out of your pody , I can tell you that : God pless it and preserve it as long as it pleases his Grace and his Majesty too .
What means this shouting ? I do fear , the people Choose Caesar for their king .
Do you hear aught , sir , of a battle toward ?
At last , though long , our jarring notes agree , And time it is when raging war is done To smile at 'scapes and perils overblown . My fair Bianca , bid my father welcome , While I with selfsame kindness welcome thine . Brother Petruchio , sister Katherina , And thou , Hortensio , with thy loving widow , Feast with the best , and welcome to my house . My banquet is to close our stomachs up , After our great good cheer . Pray you , sit down , For now we sit to chat as well as eat .
She said so . I must needs report the truth .
O sir , to wilful men , The injuries that they themselves procure Must be their schoolmasters . Shut up your doors . He is attended with a desperate train . And what they may incense him to , being apt To have his ear abused , wisdom bids fear .
Ay , so . Good-bye to you .
The strawberry grows underneath the nettle , And wholesome berries thrive and ripen best Neighbored by fruit of baser quality ; And so the Prince obscured his contemplation Under the veil of wildness , which , no doubt , Grew like the summer grass , fastest by night , Unseen yet crescive in his faculty .
I 'll not meddle with it . It makes a man a coward : a man cannot steal but it accuseth him ; a man cannot swear but it checks him ; a man cannot lie with his neighbor 's wife but it detects him . ' Tis a blushing , shamefaced spirit that mutinies in a man 's bosom . It fills a man full of obstacles . It made me once restore a purse of gold that by chance I found . It beggars any man that keeps it . It is turned out of towns and cities for a dangerous thing , and every man that means to live well endeavors to trust to himself and live without it .
Where I have learned me to repent the sin Of disobedient opposition To you and your behests , and am enjoined By holy Lawrence to fall prostrate here To beg your pardon . Pardon , I beseech you ! Henceforward I am ever ruled by you .
And to that end , sir , I will welcome you .
Villain , thou didst deny the gold 's receipt And told 'st me of a mistress and a dinner , For which , I hope , thou felt 'st I was displeased .
O weary night , O long and tedious night , Abate thy hours . Shine comforts from the east , That I may back to Athens by daylight From these that my poor company detest . And sleep , that sometimes shuts up sorrow 's eye , Steal me awhile from mine own company .
Go , go , good countrymen , and for this fault , Assemble all the poor men of your sort , Draw them to Tiber banks , and weep your tears Into the channel till the lowest stream Do kiss the most exalted shores of all .
Follow him at foot . Tempt him with speed aboard . Delay it not . I 'll have him hence tonight . Away ! For everything is sealed and done That else leans on the affair . Pray you , make haste .
With divers liquors ! O , if this were seen , The happiest youth , viewing his progress through , What perils past , what crosses to ensue , Would shut the book , and sit him down and die . ' Tis not ten years gone Since Richard and Northumberland , great friends , Did feast together , and in two years after Were they at wars . It is but eight years since This Percy was the man nearest my soul , Who like a brother toiled in my affairs And laid his love and life under my foot , Yea , for my sake , even to the eyes of Richard Gave him defiance . But which of you was by -- You , cousin Nevil , as I may remember -- When Richard , with his eye brimful of tears , Then checked and rated by Northumberland , Did speak these words , now proved a prophecy ? " Northumberland , thou ladder by the which My cousin Bolingbroke ascends my throne " -- Though then , God knows , I had no such intent , But that necessity so bowed the state That I and greatness were compelled to kiss -- " The time shall come , " thus did he follow it , " The time will come that foul sin , gathering head , Shall break into corruption " -- so went on , Foretelling this same time 's condition And the division of our amity .
O damned Iago ! O inhuman dog !
Ay , when the special thing is well obtained , That is , her love , for that is all in all .
Cicero is dead , And by that order of proscription . Had you your letters from your wife , my lord ?
Set on your foot , And with a heart new - fired I follow you , To do I know not what . But it sufficeth That Brutus leads me on .
And what to ?
Where is thy luster now ?
Monster , I do smell all horse piss , at which my nose is in great indignation .
Are you not good ?
The enemy 's in view . Draw up your powers . Here is the guess of their true strength and forces By diligent discovery , but your haste Is now urged on you .
I talk not of his Majesty . You would not come when I sent for you .
Fly ? Not we .
No , Mortimer is not there .
Most reverend signior , do you know my voice ?
None that I know will be ; much that I fear may chance . Good morrow to you . Here the street is narrow . The throng that follows Caesar at the heels , Of senators , of praetors , common suitors , Will crowd a feeble man almost to death . I 'll get me to a place more void , and there Speak to great Caesar as he comes along .
What , dost thou roar before thou art pricked ?
' Tis true . She rides me , and I long for grass . ' Tis so . I am an ass ; else it could never be But I should know her as well as she knows me .
The King is to be feared as the lion . Dost thou think I 'll fear thee as I fear thy father ? Nay , an I do , I pray God my girdle break .
See , Antony , that revels long a - nights , Is notwithstanding up . --Good morrow , Antony .
La main , " de hand " ; les doigts , " de fingres . " Je pense que je suis le bon ecolier . J' ai gagne deux mots d' anglais vitement . Comment appelez-vous les ongles ?
I will lay odds that , ere this year expire , We bear our civil swords and native fire As far as France : I beard a bird so sing , Whose music , to my thinking , pleased the King . Come , will you hence ?
And target . Still he mends . But this is not the best . Look , prithee , Charmian , How this Herculean Roman does become The carriage of his chafe .
Fear not , Baptista , we will content you . Go to . But I will in to be revenged for this villany .
Marry , sir , lullaby to your bounty till I come again . I go , sir , but I would not have you to think that my desire of having is the sin of covetousness . But , as you say , sir , let your bounty take a nap , I will awake it anon .
What is ' t you say ?
Why , so I do . Good Portia , go to bed .
Most certain . Sister , welcome . Pray you Be ever known to patience . My dear 'st sister !
He came with flowers to strew his lady 's grave , And bid me stand aloof , and so I did . Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb , And by and by my master drew on him , And then I ran away to call the watch .
I am strong - framed . He cannot prevail with me .
How long hath he been there ?
Ay me , most wretched , That have my heart parted betwixt two friends That does afflict each other !
Full thirty times hath Phoebus ' cart gone round Neptune 's salt wash and Tellus ' orbed ground , And thirty dozen moons with borrowed sheen About the world have times twelve thirties been , Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands Unite commutual in most sacred bands .
Mark you but that ! In both my eyes he doubly sees himself -- In each eye , one . Swear by your double self , And there 's an oath of credit !
A thing for me ? It is a common thing --
Godden to your Worship , good Captain James .
Dost thou not know ?
Sick , oh , sick !
Not I , believe me .
Were it not better , Because that I am more than common tall , That I did suit me all points like a man ? A gallant curtal-axe upon my thigh , A boar - spear in my hand , and in my heart Lie there what hidden woman 's fear there will , We 'll have a swashing and a martial outside -- As many other mannish cowards have That do outface it with their semblances .
When such a spacious mirror 's set before him , He needs must see himself .
Is ' t so saucy ?
Come , away !
To seem like him . So that in speech , in gait , In diet , in affections of delight , In military rules , humors of blood , He was the mark and glass , copy and book , That fashioned others . And him --O wondrous him ! O miracle of men ! -- him did you leave , Second to none , unseconded by you , To look upon the hideous god of war In disadvantage , to abide a field Where nothing but the sound of Hotspur 's name Did seem defensible . So you left him . Never , O never , do his ghost the wrong To hold your honor more precise and nice With others than with him . Let them alone . The Marshal and the Archbishop are strong . Had my sweet Harry had but half their numbers , Today might I , hanging on Hotspur 's neck , Have talked of Monmouth 's grave .
Ay , gentle cousin , were it light enough .
Peace , Master Marquess , you are malapert . Your fire - new stamp of honor is scarce current . O , that your young nobility could judge What ' twere to lose it and be miserable ! They that stand high have many blasts to shake them , And if they fall , they dash themselves to pieces .
A dollar .
Look who comes here .
I 'll give thee a wind .
You must not deny me . I must go with you to Belmont .
A greater gift than that I 'll give my cousin .
I 'll show thee the best springs . I 'll pluck thee berries . I 'll fish for thee and get thee wood enough . A plague upon the tyrant that I serve ! I 'll bear him no more sticks , but follow thee , Thou wondrous man .
You have seen nothing then ?
If you did wear a beard upon your chin , I 'd shake it on this quarrel . What do you mean ?
My lord ?
Do , young sir . Your reputation shall not therefore be misprized . We will make it our suit to the duke that the wrestling might not go forward .
My lord , you once did love me .
Some lay in dead men 's skulls , and in the holes Where eyes did once inhabit , there were crept -- As ' twere in scorn of eyes -- reflecting gems , That wooed the slimy bottom of the deep And mocked the dead bones that lay scattered by .
Give me some music . Music , moody food Of us that trade in love .
Sirrah , naked fellow --
How now shall this be compassed ? Canst thou bring me to th ' party ?
Hath he not lost much wealth by wrack of sea ? Buried some dear friend ? Hath not else his eye Stray 'd his affection in unlawful love , A sin prevailing much in youthful men Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing ? Which of these sorrows is he subject to ?
I will be assured I may , and that I may be assured , I will bethink me . May I speak with Antonio ?
Sir , I entreat you home with me to dinner .
Marry , God forbid ! The boy was the very staff of my age , my very prop .
So prosper I as I swear perfect love .
The god of love , That sits above , And knows me , and knows me , How pitiful I deserve -- I mean in singing . But in loving , Leander the good swimmer , Troilus the first employer of panders , and a whole bookful of these quondam carpetmongers , whose names yet run smoothly in the even road of a blank verse , why , they were never so truly turned over and over as my poor self in love . Marry , I cannot show it in rhyme . I have tried . I can find out no rhyme to " lady " but " baby " -- an innocent rhyme ; for " scorn , " " horn " -- a hard rhyme ; for , " school , " " fool " -- a babbling rhyme ; very ominous endings . No , I was not born under a rhyming planet , nor I cannot woo in festival terms .
That is because the traitor murderer lives .
The devil take order now ! I 'll to the throng . Let life be short , else shame will be too long .
Mistress ! What , mistress ! Juliet ! --Fast , I warrant her , she . -- Why , lamb ! Why , lady ! Fie , you slug - a - bed . Why , love , I say . Madam ! Sweet - heart ! Why , bride ! What , not a word ? You take your pennyworths now . Sleep for a week , for the next night , I warrant , The County Paris hath set up his rest That you shall rest but little . --God forgive me , Marry , and amen . How sound is she asleep ! I must needs wake her . --Madam , madam , madam ! Ay , let the county take you in your bed . He 'll fright you up , i ' faith . Will it not be ? What , dressed and in your clothes , and down again ? I must needs wake you . Lady , lady , lady ! -- Alas , alas ! Help , help ! My lady 's dead ! -- Oh , welladay , that ever I was born ! -- Some aqua vitae , ho ! --My lord ! My lady !
Hamlet , thou hast thy father much offended .
She hath prevented me . Here , Signior Tranio , This bird you aimed at , though you hit her not . -- Therefore a health to all that shot and missed .
Well , masters , we hear our charge . Let us go sit here upon the church bench till two , and then all to bed .
I hope , sir , you are , and I am yours .
I am one , sir , that comes to tell you your daughter and the Moor are now making the beast with two backs .
Thou comest to use Thy tongue ; thy story quickly .
Go , prick thy face and over - red thy fear , Thou lily-livered boy . What soldiers , patch ? Death of thy soul ! Those linen cheeks of thine Are counselors to fear . What soldiers , whey - face ?
Yes , to pay a fine for a periwig , and recover the lost hair of another man .
I am woe for ' t , sir .
Sir , I will be as good as my word . This that you heard was but a color .
Where is my father ?
Some officers take them away . Good guard Until their greater pleasures first be known That are to censure them .
What is Thisbe ? A wandering knight ?
Neither , my lord .
No , as I am a Christian . If to preserve this vessel for my lord From any other foul unlawful touch Be not to be a strumpet , I am none .
Here 's an overweening rogue !
In faith , my lord , not I.
You have my consent . Let your wedding be tomorrow . Thither will I invite the duke and all' s contented followers . Go you and prepare Aliena , for look you , here comes my Rosalind .
He hath fought today As if a god , in hate of mankind , had Destroyed in such a shape .
Why do you speak so faintly ? Are you not well ?
If you had known the virtue of the ring , Or half her worthiness that gave the ring , Or your own honor to contain the ring , You would not then have parted with the ring . What man is there so much unreasonable , If you had pleased to have defended it With any terms of zeal , wanted the modesty To urge the thing held as a ceremony ? Nerissa teaches me what to believe . I 'll die for ' t but some woman had the ring .
Be patient , gentlemen . I choose her for myself . If she and I be pleased , what 's that to you ? ' Tis bargained ' twixt us twain , being alone , That she shall still be curst in company . I tell you , ' tis incredible to believe How much she loves me . O , the kindest Kate ! She hung about my neck , and kiss on kiss She vied so fast , protesting oath on oath , That in a twink she won me to her love . O , you are novices ! ' Tis a world to see , How tame , when men and women are alone , A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew . -- Give me thy hand , Kate . I will unto Venice To buy apparel ' gainst the wedding day . Provide the feast , father , and bid the guests . I will be sure my Katherine shall be fine .
Worse and worse . She will not come ! O vile , intolerable , not to be endured ! -- Sirrah Grumio , go to your mistress , Say I command her to come to me .
Have done , have done .
He has some reason , else he could not beg . I ' th ' last night 's storm I such a fellow saw , Which made me think a man a worm . My son Came then into my mind , and yet my mind Was then scarce friends with him . I have heard more since . As flies to wanton boys are we to th ' gods . They kill us for their sport .
I know the hand . In faith , ' tis a fair hand , And whiter than the paper it writ on Is the fair hand that writ .
Goodman Death , Goodman Bones !
Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste ?
Go , some of you , knock at the abbey gate , And bid the Lady Abbess come to me . I will determine this before I stir .
Thyself do grace to them , and bring them in .
Woe to the land that 's governed by a child .
Why , I can teach you , cousin , to command the devil .
What men of name are slain on either side ?
Contending with the fretful elements . Bids the winds blow the earth into the sea Or swell the curled water ' bove the main , That things might change or cease . Tears his white hair , Which the impetuous blasts , with eyeless rage , Catch in their fury and make nothing of . Strives in his little world of man to outscorn The to - and - fro - conflicting wind and rain . This night -- wherein the cub - drawn bear would couch , The lion and the belly - pinched wolf Keep their fur dry -- unbonneted he runs , And bids what will take all .
Madam , with much ado . Your sister is the better soldier .
Spake he so doubtfully thou couldst not feel his meaning ?
' Tis so . And the tears of it are wet .
Pompey , a word .
I know not , madam . ' Tis a fair young man , and well attended .
Most royal majesty , I crave no more than hath your highness offered . Nor will you tender less .
With a hey , and a ho , and a hey - nonny - no , These pretty country folks would lie In springtime , the only pretty ring time , When birds do sing , Hey ding a ding , ding . Sweet lovers love the spring . This carol they began that hour , With a hey , and a ho , and a hey hey - nonny - no , How that a life was but a flower In springtime , the only pretty ring time , When birds do sing , Hey ding a ding , ding . Sweet lovers love the spring . And therefore take the present time , With a hey , and a ho , and a hey hey - nonny - no , For love is crowned with the prime In springtime , the only pretty ring time , When birds do sing , Hey ding a ding , ding . Sweet lovers love the spring .
Thrift , thrift , Horatio ! The funeral baked meats Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables . Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven Or ever I had seen that day , Horatio . My father -- methinks I see my father .
to counterfeit , or that hot termagant Scot had paid me scot and lot too . Counterfeit ? I lie . I am no counterfeit . To die is to be a counterfeit , for he is but the counterfeit of a man who hath not the life of a man ; but to counterfeit dying when a man thereby liveth is to be no counterfeit , but the true and perfect image of life indeed . The better part of valor is discretion , in the which better part I have saved my life . Zounds , I am afraid of this gunpowder Percy , though he be dead . How if he should counterfeit too and rise ? By my faith , I am afraid he would prove the better counterfeit . Therefore I 'll make him sure , yea , and I 'll swear I killed him . Why may not he rise as well as I ? Nothing confutes me but eyes , and nobody sees me . Therefore , sirrah , with a new wound in your thigh , come you along with me .
No , sir , but hear I do that he hath two , The one as famous for a scolding tongue As is the other for beauteous modesty .
Fie , now you run this humor out of breath . Come , where 's the chain ? I pray you , let me see it .
Advise you what you say . The minister is here . Malvolio , Malvolio , thy wits the heavens restore ! Endeavor thyself to sleep , and leave thy vain bibble-babble .
Peace , ho ! Let us hear him .
Base is the slave that pays .
Say that I slew them not .
One . Tell .
Now , my Lord Constable ?
But repetition of what thou hast marred . That will I make before I let thee go .
Ye light o ' love , with your heels ! Then , if your husband have stables enough , you 'll see he shall lack no barns .
Many a man would take you at your word And go indeed , having so good a mean .
It must be shortly known to him from England What is the issue of the business there .
Farewell .
While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred .
Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged .
Did you not speak to it ?
To him will I. Out of these convertites There is much matter to be heard and learned . You to your former honor I bequeath ; Your patience and your virtue well deserves it . You to a love that your true faith doth merit . You to your land , and love , and great allies . You to a long and well-deserved bed .
Mislike me not for my complexion , The shadowed livery of the burnished sun , To whom I am a neighbor and near bred . Bring me the fairest creature northward born , Where Phoebus ' fire scarce thaws the icicles , And let us make incision for your love To prove whose blood is reddest , his or mine . I tell thee , lady , this aspect of mine Hath feared the valiant . By my love I swear The best-regarded virgins of our clime Have loved it too . I would not change this hue Except to steal your thoughts , my gentle queen .
O fool ! fool ! fool !
O , she misused me past the endurance of a block ! An oak but with one green leaf on it would have answered her . My very visor began to assume life and scold with her . She told me , not thinking I had been myself , that I was the Prince 's jester , that I was duller than a great thaw , huddling jest upon jest with such impossible conveyance upon me that I stood like a man at a mark with a whole army shooting at me . She speaks poniards , and every word stabs . If her breath were as terrible as her terminations , there were no living near her ; she would infect to the north star . I would not marry her , though she were endowed with all that Adam had left him before he transgressed . She would have made Hercules have turned spit , yea , and have cleft his club to make the fire , too . Come , talk not of her . You shall find her the infernal Ate in good apparel . I would to God some scholar would conjure her , for certainly , while she is here , a man may live as quiet in hell as in a sanctuary , and people sin upon purpose because they would go thither . So indeed all disquiet , horror and perturbation follows her .
Caesar , all hail ! Good morrow , worthy Caesar . I come to fetch you to the senate house .
Good , an God will !
Ay , but when ?
We will proceed no further in this business . He hath honored me of late , and I have bought Golden opinions from all sorts of people , Which would be worn now in their newest gloss , Not cast aside so soon .
In that and all things will we show our duty .
I am not weary , and ' tis long to night : I pray you , let us satisfy our eyes With the memorials and the things of fame That do renown this city .
A herald , ho !
Oh , he is even in my mistress ' case , Just in her case . O woeful sympathy , Piteous predicament ! Even so lies she , Blubbering and weeping , weeping and blubbering . Stand up , stand up . Stand , an you be a man . For Juliet 's sake , for her sake , rise and stand . Why should you fall into so deep an O ?
I 'll see their trial first . Bring in the evidence . Thou robed man of justice , take thy place . And thou , his yoke - fellow of equity , Bench by his side . You are o ' th ' commission . Sit you too .
Well met here .
And I am sick when I look not on you .
O Iago !
Rare words , brave world ! --Hostess , my breakfast , come . -- O , I could wish this tavern were my drum .
O this woodcock , what an ass it is !
Wilt thou go to bed , Malvolio ?
Let them set on at once , for I perceive But cold demeanor in Octavius ' wing , And sudden push gives them the overthrow . Ride , ride , Messala . Let them all come down .
' Sblood , I would my face were in your belly !
What 's the matter ?
My master 's mind .
Nay , if they lead to any ill , I will leave them at the next turning .
I tell thee , Constable , my mistress wears his own hair .
You were kneeled to and importuned otherwise By all of us , and the fair soul herself Weighed between loathness and obedience , at Which end o ' th ' beam should bow . We have lost your son , I fear , forever . Milan and Naples have More widows in them of this business ' making Than we bring men to comfort them . The fault 's your own .
And I can cut the mutton to ' t .
He is .
Will ' t please you hear me ?
Answer every man directly .
To her , Kate !
Worthy Montano , you were wont be civil . The gravity and stillness of your youth The world hath noted , and your name is great In mouths of wisest censure . What 's the matter That you unlace your reputation thus And spend your rich opinion for the name Of a night - brawler ? Give me answer to it .
If in Naples I should report this now , would they believe me ? If I should say , I saw such islanders -- For , certes , these are people of the island -- Who , though they are of monstrous shape , yet note , Their manners are more gentle - kind than of Our human generation you shall find Many -- nay , almost any .
Sir , a whole history .
Give me any gage of thine , and I will wear it in my bonnet . Then , if ever thou dar 'st acknowledge it , I will make it my quarrel .
Scale of dragon , tooth of wolf , Witches ' mummy , maw and gulf Of the ravined salt - sea shark , Root of hemlock digged i ' th ' dark , Liver of blaspheming Jew , Gall of goat and slips of yew Slivered in the moon 's eclipse , Nose of Turk and Tartar 's lips , Finger of birth - strangled babe Ditch - delivered by a drab , Make the gruel thick and slab . Add thereto a tiger 's chaudron , For the ingredients of our cauldron .
Come , shepherd , let us make an honorable retreat , though not with bag and baggage , yet with scrip and scrippage .
Well , the King hath severed you and Prince Harry . I hear you are going with Lord John of Lancaster against the Archbishop and the Earl of Northumberland .
Come , shall we go and kill us venison ? And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools , Being native burghers of this desert city , Should in their own confines with forked heads Have their round haunches gored .
Nay , certainly , there is no truth in him .
That is intended in the General 's name . I muse you make so slight a question .
I would exult , man . You know , he brought me out o ' favor with my lady about a bear-baiting here .
Then be still .
It is my fashion , when I see a crab .
Not a jot , not a jot .
What I should think of this I cannot tell , But this I think : there 's no man is so vain That would refuse so fair an offered chain .
I 'll wait upon your Lordship .
Have you that holy feeling in your souls To counsel me to make my peace with God , And art you yet to your own souls so blind That thou will war with God by murd'ring me ? O sirs , consider : they that set you on To do this deed will hate you for the deed .
Locked in her monument . She had a prophesying fear Of what hath come to pass . For when she saw -- Which never shall be found -- you did suspect She had disposed with Caesar , and that your rage Would not be purged , she sent you word she was dead . But fearing since how it might work , hath sent Me to proclaim the truth , and I am come , I dread , too late .
His effect of gravy , gravy , gravy .
Both which we doubt not but your Majesty Shall soon enjoy .
Good madam , hear me .
March on . Join bravely . Let us to it pell mell If not to heaven , then hand in hand to hell . His oration to his army What shall I say more than I have inferred ? Remember whom you are to cope withal , A sort of vagabonds , rascals , and runaways , A scum of Bretons and base lackey peasants , Whom their o'er-cloyed country vomits forth To desperate ventures and assured destruction . You sleeping safe , they bring to you unrest ; You having lands and blessed with beauteous wives , They would restrain the one , distain the other . And who doth lead them but a paltry fellow , Long kept in Brittany at our mother 's cost , A milksop , one that never in his life Felt so much cold as overshoes in snow ? Let 's whip these stragglers o'er the seas again , Lash hence these overweening rags of France , These famished beggars weary of their lives , Who , but for dreaming on this fond exploit , For want of means , poor rats , had hanged themselves . If we be conquered , let men conquer us , And not these bastard Bretons , whom our fathers Have in their own land beaten , bobbed , and thumped , And in record , left them the heirs of shame . Shall these enjoy our lands , lie with our wives , Ravish our daughters ?
I cannot choose . Sometime he angers me With telling me of the moldwarp and the ant , Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies , And of a dragon and a finless fish , A clip - winged griffin and a moulten raven , A couching lion and a ramping cat , And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff As puts me from my faith . I tell you what -- He held me last night at least nine hours In reckoning up the several devils ' names That were his lackeys . I cried " Hum , " and " Well , go to , " But marked him not a word . O , he is as tedious
Are you fair ?
Bull Jove , sir , had an amiable low , And some such strange bull leapt your father 's cow And got a calf in that same noble feat Much like to you , for you have just his bleat .
Why should calamity be full of words ?
Lord Rivers and Lord Grey are sent to Pomfret , And , with them , Sir Thomas Vaughan , prisoners .
Right .
Hark , hark ! I hear the minstrels play .
Have you not set Lysander , as in scorn , To follow me and praise my eyes and face ? And made your other love , Demetrius -- Who even but now did spurn me with his foot -- To call me goddess , nymph , divine , and rare , Precious , celestial ? Wherefore speaks he this To her he hates ? And wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love , so rich within his soul , And tender me , forsooth , affection , But by your setting on , by your consent ? What though I be not so in grace as you -- So hung upon with love , so fortunate -- But miserable most , to love unloved ? This you should pity rather than despise .
Would we had all such wives , that the men might go to wars with the women !
Yea , in truth , my lord .
Ha ! " Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner . " There 's a double meaning in that . " I took no more pains for those thanks than you took pains to thank me . " That 's as much as to say , " Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks . " If I do not take pity of her , I am a villain . If I do not love her , I am a Jew . I will go get her picture .
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is --
I had rather have a handful or two of dried peas . But , I pray you , let none of your people stir me . I have an exposition of sleep come upon me .
This is nothing , Fool .
How have you slept , my lord ?
Tell him there 's a post come from my master with his horn full of good news . My master will be here ere morning .
Leonato , stand I here ? Is this the Prince ? Is this the Prince 's brother ? Is this face Hero 's ? Are our eyes our own ?
What do you see ? You see an ass head of your own , do you ?
Yes , as sparrows eagles , or the hare the lion . If I say sooth , I must report they were As cannons overcharged with double cracks , So they doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe . Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds , Or memorize another Golgotha , I cannot tell -- But I am faint , my gashes cry for help .
Till he come home again , I would forbear .
What is ' t ? A spirit ? Lord , how it looks about ! Believe me , sir , It carries a brave form . But ' tis a spirit .
That 's not the tune .
Thou baggage , let me in .
The house will be the quieter .
All the infections that the sun sucks up From bogs , fens , flats , on Prosper fall and make him By inchmeal a disease ! His spirits hear me And yet I needs must curse . But they 'll nor pinch , Fright me with urchin - shows , pitch me i ' th ' mire , Nor lead me like a firebrand in the dark Out of my way , unless he bid ' em . But For every trifle are they set upon me , Sometime like apes that mow and chatter at me , And after bite me , then like hedgehogs which Lie tumbling in my barefoot way and mount Their pricks at my footfall . Sometime am I All wound with adders who with cloven tongues Do hiss me into madness .
Go , after , after , cousin Buckingham . The mayor towards Guildhall hies him in all post . There , at your meetest vantage of the time , Infer the bastardy of Edward 's children . Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen Only for saying he would make his son Heir to the Crown -- meaning indeed his house , Which , by the sign thereof , was termed so . Moreover , urge his hateful luxury And bestial appetite in change of lust , Which stretched to their servants , daughters , wives , Even where his raging eye or savage heart , Without control , lusted to make his prey . Nay , for a need , thus far come near my person : Tell them when that my mother went with child Of that insatiate Edward , noble York My princely father then had wars in France , And , by true computation of the time , Found that the issue was not his begot , Which well appeared in his lineaments , Being nothing like the noble duke my father . Yet touch this sparingly , as ' twere far off , Because , my lord , you know my mother lives .
All the better . We shall be the more marketable . --Bonjour , Monsieur Le Beau . What 's the news ?
No , ' tis hereafter to know , but now to promise . Do but now promise , Kate , you will endeavor for your French part of such a boy ; and for my English moiety take the word of a king and a bachelor . How answer you , la plus belle Katherine du monde , mon tres cher et divin deesse ?
Bless us !
I think it be no other but e' en so . Well may it sort that this portentous figure Comes armed through our watch so like the king That was and is the question of these wars .
Whiles we stood here securing your repose , Even now , we heard a hollow burst of bellowing Like bulls , or rather lions . Did ' t not wake you ? It struck mine ear most terribly .
What ho , chamberlain !
Ding - dong .
But soft , I pray you . What , did Caesar swoon ?
Caesar !
Madam , the guests are come , supper served up , you called , my young lady asked for , the Nurse cursed in the pantry , and every thing in extremity . I must hence to wait . I beseech you , follow straight .
Lord , let me never have a cause to sigh , Till I be brought to such a silly pass !
Peace , break thee off . Look where it comes again !
I do beseech you That I may speak with you , O good my lord !
We shall not spend a large expense of time Before we reckon with your several loves And make us even with you . My thanes and kinsmen , Henceforth be earls , the first that ever Scotland In such an honor named . What 's more to do , Which would be planted newly with the time , As calling home our exiled friends abroad That fled the snares of watchful tyranny , Producing forth the cruel ministers Of this dead butcher and his fiendlike queen , Who , as ' tis thought , by self and violent hands Took off her life ; this , and what needful else That calls upon us , by the grace of Grace , We will perform in measure , time , and place . So , thanks to all at once and to each one , Whom we invite to see us crowned at Scone .
So I will , my liege , as I live .
I arrest thee of high treason , by the name of Richard , Earl of Cambridge . --I arrest thee of high treason , by the name of Henry , Lord Scroop of Masham . --I arrest thee of high treason , by the name of Thomas Grey , knight , of Northumberland .
Too well what love women to men may owe . In faith , they are as true of heart as we . My father had a daughter loved a man As it might be , perhaps , were I a woman , I should your lordship .
I know not where he lodges , and for me to devise a lodging and say he lies here , or he lies there , were to lie in mine own throat .
Margaret .
That will ask some tears in the true performing of it . If I do it , let the audience look to their eyes . I will move storms . I will condole in some measure . --To the rest . --Yet my chief humor is for a tyrant . I could play Ercles rarely , or a part to tear a cat in to make all split . The raging rocks And shivering shocks Shall break the locks Of prison gates . And Phoebus ' car Shall shine from far And make and mar The foolish Fates . This was lofty ! --Now name the rest of the players . --This is Ercles ' vein , a tyrant 's vein . A lover is more condoling .
Gramercy ! Wouldst thou aught with me ?
Nay , that 's certain ; we have the exhibition to examine .
Produce their bodies , be they alive or dead . This judgment of the heavens that makes us tremble Touches us not with pity .
A little more than kin and less than kind .
O God , she comes . --O honey Nurse , what news ? Hast thou met with him ? Send thy man away .
O , wilt thou darkling leave me ? Do not so .
Alas , my liege , my wife is dead tonight . Grief of my son 's exile hath stopped her breath . What further woe conspires against mine age ?
Well , we 'll see ' t . Come , madam wife , sit by my side and let the world slip . We shall ne'er be younger .
Our duties , and the pledge .
Marry , I tell thee it is not meet that I should be sad , now my father is sick -- albeit I could tell thee , as to one it pleases me , for fault of a better , to call my friend , I could be sad , and sad indeed too .
And to sink in it , should you burthen love -- Too great oppression for a tender thing .
O this learning , what a thing it is !
Oh , ay , as summer flies are in the shambles , That quicken even with blowing . O thou weed , Who art so lovely fair and smell 'st so sweet That the sense aches at thee , would thou hadst ne'er been born !
No , monster , not I.
O , my good Lord Mowbray , Construe the times to their necessities ,
He is addressed . Press near and second him .
" If this fall into thy hand , revolve . In my stars I am above thee , but be not afraid of greatness . Some are born great , some achieve greatness , and some have greatness thrust upon ' em . Thy Fates open their hands . Let thy blood and spirit embrace them . And , to inure thyself to what thou art like to be , cast thy humble slough and appear fresh . Be opposite with a kinsman , surly with servants .
I thank your honor . For my part , my lord , My purpose was not to have seen you here . But meeting with Salerio by the way , He did entreat me , past all saying nay , To come with him along .
No ? What needed , then , that terrible dispatch of it into your pocket ? The quality of nothing hath not such need to hide itself . Let 's see . --Come , if it be nothing , I shall not need spectacles .
And with no less nobility of love Than that which dearest father bears his son Do I impart toward you . For your intent In going back to school in Wittenberg , It is most retrograde to our desire . And we beseech you , bend you to remain Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye , Our chiefest courtier , cousin , and our son .
Never mole , harelip , nor scar , Nor mark prodigious , such as are Despised in nativity , Shall upon their children be . With this field dew consecrate , Every fairy take his gait . And each several chamber bless Through this palace with sweet peace . And the owner of it blessed Ever shall in safety rest . Trip away . Make no stay . Meet me all by break of day .
I must not think there are Evils enough to darken all his goodness . His faults in him seem as the spots of heaven , More fiery by night 's blackness , hereditary Rather than purchased , what he cannot change Than what he chooses .
A mote will turn the balance , which Pyramus , which Thisbe , is the better . He for a man , God warrant us , she for a woman , God bless us .
You are looked for and called for , asked for and sought for , in the great chamber .
E' en as the o'erflowing Nilus presageth famine .
Where it seems best unto your royal self . If I may counsel you , some day or two Your Highness shall repose you at the Tower ; Then where you please and shall be thought most fit For your best health and recreation .
Calls your Worship ?
How does he love me ?
By the apostle Paul , shadows tonight Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers Armed in proof and led by shallow Richmond . ' Tis not yet near day . Come , go with me ; Under our tents I 'll play the eavesdropper To see if any mean to shrink from me .
' Tis better as it is .
Beshrew him for ' t ! How comes this trick upon him ?
Minion , thou liest . Is ' t not Hortensio ?
Yea , marry , dost thou hear , Balthasar ? I pray thee , get us some excellent music , for tomorrow night we would have it at the Lady Hero 's chamber window
Ay , and that thou and the proudest of you all shall find when he comes home . But what talk I of this ? Call forth Nathaniel , Joseph , Nicholas , Philip , Walter , Sugarsop , and the rest . Let their heads be slickly combed , their blue coats brushed , and their garters of an indifferent knit . Let them curtsy with their left legs , and not presume to touch a hair of my master 's horse - tail till they kiss their hands . Are they all ready ?
Lords , give us leave ; the Prince of Wales and I Must have some private conference , but be near at hand , For we shall presently have need of you .
Sailors , my lord , they say . I saw them not . They were given me by Claudio . He received them Of him that brought them .
It is , my lord .
But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak ?
Exceeding ill .
Mistress , your father prays you leave your books And help to dress your sister 's chamber up . You know tomorrow is the wedding day .
There is more news . I learned in Worcester , as I rode along , He cannot draw his power this fourteen days .
That 's more than we know .
Gremio , ' tis known my father hath no less Than three great argosies , besides two galliasses , And twelve tight galleys . These I will assure her , And twice as much whate'er thou offer 'st next .
Hark ! Who lies i ' th ' second chamber ?
Yes , certainly , and out of doubt and out of question , too , and ambiguities .
Didst thou not say he lied ?
O Cassius , Brutus gave the word too early , Who , having some advantage on Octavius , Took it too eagerly . His soldiers fell to spoil , Whilst we by Antony are all enclosed .
What was he , sad or merry ?
Well said , good woman 's tailor , well said , courageous Feeble . Thou wilt be as valiant as the wrathful dove or most magnanimous mouse . --Prick the woman 's tailor well , Master Shallow , deep , Master Shallow .
So please your Lordship to accept our duty .
I pray you , tarry . Pause a day or two Before you hazard , for in choosing wrong I lose your company . Therefore forbear awhile . There 's something tells me -- but it is not love -- I would not lose you , and you know yourself Hate counsels not in such a quality . But lest you should not understand me well -- And yet a maiden hath no tongue but thought -- I would detain you here some month or two Before you venture for me . I could teach you How to choose right , but I am then forsworn . So will I never be . So may you miss me . But if you do , you 'll make me wish a sin , That I had been forsworn . Beshrew your eyes , They have o'erlooked me and divided me . One half of me is yours , the other half yours -- Mine own , I would say . But if mine , then yours , And so all yours . Oh , these naughty times Put bars between the owners and their rights ! And so , though yours , not yours . Prove it so . Let Fortune go to hell for it , not I. I speak too long , but ' tis to peize the time , To eke it and to draw it out in length , To stay you from election .
Pillicock sat on Pillicock hill . Alow , alow , loo , loo !
He is a dreamer . Let us leave him . Pass !
I pray thee , hear me speak .
I will receive it , sir , with all diligence of spirit . Put your bonnet to his right use . ' Tis for the head .
Give them the foils , young Osric . --Cousin Hamlet , You know the wager ?
How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak ! Your eyes do menace me . Why look you pale ? Who sent you hither ? Wherefore do you come ?
As Vulcan 's stithy . Give him heedful note . For I mine eyes will rivet to his face , And after we will both our judgments join In censure of his seeming .
Welcome , Horatio . --Welcome , good Marcellus .
Thou hadst , and more , Miranda . But how is it That this lives in thy mind ? What seest thou else In the dark backward and abysm of time ? If thou rememberest aught ere thou camest here , How thou camest here thou mayst .
But thou must needs be sure My spirits and my place have in their power To make this bitter to thee .
With no sauce that can be devised to it . I protest I love thee .
It is , my lord .
I will , my liege .
Out upon you ! What a man are you ?
No , thou shalt .
Two faults , madonna , that drink and good counsel will amend . For give the dry fool drink , then is the fool not dry . Bid the dishonest man mend himself . If he mend , he is no longer dishonest . If he cannot , let the botcher mend him . Anything that 's mended is but patched . Virtue that transgresses is but patched with sin , and sin that amends is but patched with virtue . If that this simple syllogism will serve , so . If it will not , what remedy ? As there is no true cuckold but calamity , so beauty 's a flower . The lady bade take away the fool . Therefore , I say again , take her away .
Fill me a bowl of wine . Give me a watch . Saddle white Surrey for the field to - morrow . Look that my staves be sound , and not too heavy . -- Ratcliffe .
Or here , or at the Capitol .
Octavius , I have seen more days than you . And though we lay these honors on this man To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads , He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold , To groan and sweat under the business , Either led or driven , as we point the way . And having brought our treasure where we will , Then take we down his load and turn him off , Like to the empty ass , to shake his ears And graze in commons .
If you call me Jephthah , my lord , I have a daughter that I love passing well .
To her that is not here , nor doth not hear .
What , with Lysander ?
Could beauty , my lord , have better commerce than with honesty ?
I will bestow a breakfast to make you friends ; and we 'll be all three sworn brothers to France . Let ' t be so , good Corporal Nym .
No such jade as you , if me you mean .
I wish your ladyship all heart 's content .
Well , I am glad that all things sort so well .
Sir , we were talking that our garments seem now as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage of your daughter , who is now queen .
And with what wing the staniel checks at it !
And you . Good night , good night .
A proper gentlewoman , sir , and a kinswoman of my master 's .
Why , farewell , Portia . We must die , Messala . With meditating that she must die once , I have the patience to endure it now .
I knew ' twould be a bald conclusion : But soft , who wafts us yonder ?
Were set on Hereford , whom they doted on And blessed and graced , indeed more than the King . But this is mere digression from my purpose . Here come I from our princely general To know your griefs , to tell you from his Grace That he will give you audience ; and wherein It shall appear that your demands are just , You shall enjoy them , everything set off That might so much as think you enemies .
Do thou meet me presently at the harbor . --Come hither . If thou be 'st valiant , as they say base men being in love have then a nobility in their natures more than is native to them , list me . The lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard . First , I must tell thee this : Desdemona is directly in love with him .
Il me commande a vous dire que vous faites vous pret , car ce soldat ici est dispose tout a cette heure de couper votre gorge .
Alack , bareheaded ? Gracious my lord , hard by here is a hovel . Some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest . Repose you there , while I to this hard house -- More harder than the stones whereof ' tis raised , Which even but now , demanding after you , Denied me to come in -- return , and force Their scanted courtesy .
Will ' t please your highness walk ?
I must stay his time .
Stand fast , Titinius . We must out and talk .
Davy !
O my poor Rosalind , whither wilt thou go ? Wilt thou change fathers ? I will give thee mine . I charge thee , be not thou more grieved than I am .
By yonder moon I swear you do me wrong . In faith , I gave it to the judge 's clerk . Would he were gelt that had it , for my part , Since you do take it , love , so much at heart .
And the rarest that e' er came there .
My name is Harry Percy .
The woman falls ! Sure he hath killed his wife .
Show him your hand .
Thus from my lips , by thine , my sin is purged .
A very best at a beast , my lord , that e' er I saw .
The leaders , having charge from you to stand , Will not go off until they hear you speak .
Grant that our hopes , yet likely of fair birth , Should be stillborn and that we now possessed The utmost man of expectation , I think we are a body strong enough , Even as we are , to equal with the King .
And he did bid us follow to the temple .
You must have patience , madam .
I 'll follow this good man , and go with you ; And , having sworn truth , ever will be true .
Go to him , madam , speak to him . He is unqualitied with very shame .
Good my lord , To come thus was I not constrained , but did it On my free will . My lord , Mark Antony , Hearing that you prepared for war , acquainted My grieved ear withal , whereon I begged His pardon for return .
Her father loved me , oft invited me , Still questioned me the story of my life From year to year , the battles , sieges , fortunes , That I have passed . I ran it through , even from my boyish days , To th ' very moment that he bade me tell it , Wherein I spoke of most disastrous chances , Of moving accidents by flood and field , Of hair - breadth 'scapes i ' th ' imminent deadly breach , Of being taken by the insolent foe And sold to slavery , of my redemption thence And portance in my traveler 's history . Wherein of antres vast and deserts idle , Rough quarries , rocks , hills whose heads touch heaven It was my hint to speak -- such was my process -- And of the Cannibals that each others eat ,
I hope no less , yet needful ' tis to fear ; And to prevent the worst , Sir Michael , speed . For if Lord Percy thrive not , ere the King Dismiss his power , he means to visit us , For he hath heard of our confederacy , And ' tis but wisdom to make strong against him : Therefore make haste . I must go write again To other friends . And so farewell , Sir Michael .
There .
Such unconstant starts are we like to have from him as this of Kent 's banishment .
My kind Antonio , I can no other answer make but thanks , And thanks , and ever thanks . And oft good turns Are shuffled off with such uncurrent pay . But were my worth as is my conscience , firm , You should find better dealing . What 's to do ? Shall we go see the relics of this town ?
Oh , my offence is rank . It smells to heaven . It hath the primal eldest curse upon ' t , A brother 's murder . Pray can I not . Though inclination be as sharp as will , My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent , And , like a man to double business bound , I stand in pause where I shall first begin , And both neglect . What if this cursed hand Were thicker than itself with brother 's blood ? Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens To wash it white as snow ? Whereto serves mercy But to confront the visage of offence ? And what 's in prayer but this twofold force , To be forestalled ere we come to fall Or pardoned being down ? Then I 'll look up . My fault is past . But oh , what form of prayer Can serve my turn , " Forgive me my foul murder " ?
Come , poor remains of friends , rest on this rock .
As of a man faithful and honorable .
His bark is stoutly timbered and his pilot Of very expert and approved allowance Therefore my hopes , not surfeited to death , Stand in bold cure .
" Think , my lord ? " Alas , thou echo 'st me As if there were some monster in thy thought Too hideous to be shown . Thou dost mean something . I heard thee say even now thou lik 'st not that When Cassio left my wife . What didst not like ? And when I told thee he was of my counsel Of my whole course of wooing , thou cried 'st " Indeed ? " And didst contract and purse thy brow together As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain Some horrible conceit . If thou dost love me Show me thy thought .
As thou art to thyself . Such was the very armour he had on When he the ambitious Norway combated . So frowned he once when , in an angry parle , He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice . ' Tis strange .
Faith , we may put up our pipes and be gone .
Mouldy and Bullcalf ! For you , Mouldy , stay at home till you are past service . --And for your part , Bullcalf , grow till you come unto it . I will none of you .
That is he . I 'll tell you , there is good men porn at Monmouth .
In saying so , you shall but say the truth .
Pale or red ?
With patience , noble lord , as prisoners must . But I shall live , my lord , to give them thanks That were the cause of my imprisonment .
Norfolk , we must have knocks , ha , must we not ?
Alack , sir , I am sand - blind . I know you not .
You must if you stay here , for here is the place appointed for the wrestling , and they are ready to perform it .
I understand thee not .
Hold , for your lives !
The best actors in the world , either for tragedy , comedy , history , pastoral , pastoral - comical , historical - pastoral , tragical - historical , tragical - comical - historical - pastoral , scene individable , or poem unlimited . Seneca cannot be too heavy , nor Plautus too light . For the law of writ and the liberty , these are the only men .
Antonio , I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino .
What of his heart perceive you in his face By any livelihood he showed today ?
Arise , dissembler . Though I wish thy death , I will not be the executioner .
I found you as a morsel cold upon Dead Caesar 's trencher . Nay , you were a fragment Of Gneius Pompey 's , besides what hotter hours , Unregistered in vulgar fame , you have Luxuriously picked out . For I am sure , Though you can guess what temperance should be , You know not what it is .
Do you doubt that ?
Why , he had none .
From henceforth I will , coz , and devise sports . Let me see -- what think you of falling in love ?
That same villain , Romeo .
I will disparage her no farther till you are my witnesses . Bear it coldly but till midnight and let the issue show itself .
Madam , he 's well .
Give me thy hand . I do begin to have bloody thoughts .
But goes thy heart with this ?
How long will a man lie i ' the earth ere he rot ?
Why , how now ? Ho , awake !
And mine , two hundred . But though they jump not on a just account -- As in these cases , where the aim reports ' Tis oft with difference -- yet do they all confirm A Turkish fleet , and bearing up to Cyprus .
Let us , Lepidus , not lack your company .
What is his name ?
How should I your true love know From another one ? By his cockle hat and staff , And his sandal shoon .
With all my heart , and much it joys me too To see you are become so penitent . -- Tressel and Berkeley , go along with me .
Despised , distressed , hated , martyred , killed ! Uncomfortable time , why camest thou now To murder , murder our solemnity ? O child , O child ! My soul , and not my child ! Dead art thou ! Alack , my child is dead , And with my child my joys are buried .
Therefore be merry , coz ; since sudden sorrow Serves to say thus : " Some good thing comes tomorrow . "
I will not yield , To kiss the ground before young Malcolm 's feet , And to be baited with the rabble 's curse . Though Birnam Wood be come to Dunsinane , And thou opposed , being of no woman born , Yet I will try the last . Before my body I throw my warlike shield . Lay on , Macduff , And damned be him that first cries , " Hold , enough ! "
O sir , you are old . Nature in you stands on the very verge Of his confine . You should be ruled and led By some discretion that discerns your state Better than you yourself . Therefore I pray you That to our sister you do make return . Say you have wronged her , sir .
Well said , old mole ! Canst work i ' th ' earth so fast ? A worthy pioneer ! Once more remove , good friends .
Come , come , wrestle with thy affections .
Bear with him , Brutus . ' Tis his fashion .
Service .
So I told him , my lord , and I said I heard your Grace say so . And , my lord , he speaks most vilely of you , like a foul - mouthed man as he is ; , and said he would cudgel you .
O Antony , beg not your death of us . Though now we must appear bloody and cruel -- As by our hands and this our present act You see we do -- yet see you but our hands And this the bleeding business they have done . Our hearts you see not . They are pitiful . And pity to the general wrong of Rome - - As fire drives out fire , so pity pity -- Hath done this deed on Caesar . For your part , To you our swords have leaden points , Mark Antony . Our arms in strength of malice and our hearts Of brothers ' temper do receive you in With all kind love , good thoughts , and reverence .
It is even so . Who hath not heard it spoken How deep you were within the books of God , To us the speaker in His parliament , To us th ' imagined voice of God himself , The very opener and intelligencer Between the grace , the sanctities , of heaven , And our dull workings ? O , who shall believe But you misuse the reverence of your place , Employ the countenance and grace of heaven As a false favorite doth his prince 's name , In deeds dishonorable ? You have ta'en up , Under the counterfeited zeal of God , The subjects of His substitute , my father , And both against the peace of heaven and him Have here up - swarmed them .
There 's many a beast then in a populous city , And many a civil monster .
Pardon , dear madam . Yet to be known shortens my made intent . My boon I make it that you know me not Till time and I think meet .
That he was never trained up in arms .
I will meditate the while upon some horrid message for a challenge .
Did you assay him ? To any pastime ?
Alack the day , I know you not , young gentleman . But I pray you , tell me , is my boy , God rest his soul , alive or dead ?
If they get ground and vantage of the King , Then join you with them like a rib of steel To make strength stronger ; but , for all our loves , First let them try themselves . So did your son ; He was so suffered . So came I a widow , And never shall have length of life enough
Proceed .
Never till this day Saw I him touched with anger so distempered .
I am none of these , my lord . I beseech your pardon .
What 's the matter now ?
Nor to comply with heat the young affects In my defunct and proper satisfaction , But to be free and bounteous to her mind , And heaven defend your good souls , that you think I will your serious and great business scant When she is with me . No , when light - winged toys Of feathered Cupid seel with wanton dullness My speculative and officed instrument , That my disports corrupt and taint my business , Let housewives make a skillet of my helm And all indign and base adversities Make head against my estimation .
Not that I think you did not love your father But that I know love is begun by time , And that I see , in passages of proof , Time qualifies the spark and fire of it . There lives within the very flame of love A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it . And nothing is at a like goodness still . For goodness , growing to a pleurisy , Dies in his own too - much . That we would do , We should do when we would , for this " would " changes And hath abatements and delays as many As there are tongues , are hands , are accidents . And then this " should " is like a spendthrift sigh That hurts by easing . --But to the quick of th ' ulcer : Hamlet comes back . What would you undertake To show yourself in deed your father 's son More than in words ?
One cried , " God bless us ! " and " Amen " the other , As they had seen me with these hangman 's hands . List'ning their fear I could not say " Amen , " When they did say " God bless us ! "
With what persuasion did he tempt thy love ?
Alack , sir , he is mad .
I do beseech you , Send for the lady to the Sagittary ,
But did 'st thou see them dead ?
I would thou hadst my bones and I thy news . Nay , come , I pray thee , speak . Good , good Nurse , speak .
I know you two are rival enemies . How comes this gentle concord in the world , That hatred is so far from jealousy To sleep by hate and fear no enmity ?
They shall be married tomorrow , and I will bid the duke to the nuptial . But Oh , how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man 's eyes . By so much the more shall I tomorrow be at the height of heart - heaviness , by how much I shall think my brother happy in having what he wishes for .
Yea , sir , in a pottle-pot .
Why , this it is when men are ruled by women . ' Tis not the king that sends you to the Tower . My Lady Grey his wife , Clarence , ' tis she That tempers him to this extremity . Was it not she and that good man of worship , Anthony Woodeville , her brother there , That made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower , From whence this present day he is delivered ? We are not safe , Clarence . We are not safe .
And an ill singer , my lord .
Here comes your father . Tell him so yourself , And see how he will take it at your hands .
Hear it apart .
I did enact Julius Caesar . I was killed i ' th ' Capitol . Brutus killed me .
Peace , fellow , peace . Stand aside . Know you where you are?- -For th ' other , Sir John . Let me see . --Simon Shadow !
Good sooth , even thus . Therefore , ha ' done with words : To me she 's married , not unto my clothes . Could I repair what she will wear in me As I can change these poor accoutrements , ' Twere well for Kate and better for myself . But what a fool am I to chat with you , When I should bid good morrow to my bride And seal the title with a lovely kiss !
Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother ?
Ay me ! For aught that I could ever read , Could ever hear by tale or history , The course of true love never did run smooth . But either it was different in blood --
How do you , sir ? Stand you not so amazed . Will you lie down and rest upon the cushions ?
That 's he that was Othello . Here I am .
Ancient , what makes he here ?
Decoct their cold blood to such valiant heat ? And shall our quick blood , spirited with wine , Seem frosty ? Oh , for honor of our land , Let us not hang like roping icicles Upon our houses ' thatch , whiles a more frosty people Sweat drops of gallant youth in our rich fields ! " Poor " we may call them in their native lords .
No more than my residing here at Rome Might be to you in Egypt . Yet if you there Did practice on my state , your being in Egypt Might be my question .
Looks it not like the king ? Mark it , Horatio .
Speak , Count , ' tis your cue .
Ay , sir .
The gods defend her ! -- hear him hence awhile .
Give me some little breath , some pause , dear lord , Before I positively speak in this . I will resolve you herein presently .
Good even to my ghostly confessor .
Good sir , no more . These are unsightly tricks . Return you to my sister .
I have used it , nuncle , ever since thou madest thy daughters thy mothers . For when thou gavest them the rod , and put 'st down thine own breeches , Then they for sudden joy did weep And I for sorrow sung , That such a king should play bo - peep And go the fools among . Prithee , nuncle , keep a schoolmaster that can teach thy fool to lie . I would fain learn to lie .
What , looked he frowningly ?
Nothing but papers , my lord .
' Tis one Iago , ancient to the general .
" Mates , " maid ? how mean you that ? No mates for you Unless you were of gentler , milder mold .
Ha ! Am I king ? ' Tis so -- but Edward lives .
Rather your eyes must with his judgment look .
Stand !
The son of Clarence have I pent up close , His daughter meanly have I matched in marriage , The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham 's bosom , And Anne my wife hath bid this world goodnight . Now , for I know the Breton Richmond aims At young Elizabeth , my brother 's daughter , And by that knot looks proudly on the crown , To her go I , a jolly thriving wooer .
An you re us and fa us , you note us .
Well said .
His countenance likes me not .
They are .
Woe , woe are we , sir , you may not live to wear All your true followers out .
Peace , ho ! I bar confusion . ' Tis I must make conclusion Of these most strange events . Here 's eight that must take hands To join in Hymen 's bands , If truth holds true contents . You and you no cross shall part . You and you are heart in heart . You to his love must accord Or have a woman to your lord . You and you are sure together As the winter to foul weather . Whiles a wedlock hymn we sing , Feed yourselves with questioning , That reason wonder may diminish How thus we met , and these things finish .
He is knight , dubbed with unhatched rapier and on carpet consideration , but he is a devil in private brawl . Souls and bodies hath he divorced three , and his incensement at this moment is so implacable that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of death and sepulchre . Hob , nob , is his word . " Give ' t or take ' t . "
Ophelia , walk you here . Gracious , so please you , We will bestow ourselves . Read on this book That show of such an exercise may color Your loneliness . --We are oft to blame in this , ' Tis too much proved , that with devotion 's visage And pious action we do sugar o'er The devil himself .
Which way is he , in the name of sanctity ? If all the devils of hell be drawn in little , and Legion himself possessed him , yet I 'll speak to him .
Well met , honest gentleman .
This is Illyria , lady .
Ay , sir , but she will none , she gives you thanks . I would the fool were married to her grave !
Nay , but this dotage of our general 's O ' erflows the measure . Those his goodly eyes , That o'er the files and musters of the war Have glowed like plated Mars , now bend , now turn The office and devotion of their view Upon a tawny front . His captain 's heart , Which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst The buckles on his breast , reneges all temper And is become the bellows and the fan To cool a gypsy 's lust .
' Tis much . --Servants , leave me and her alone . Madam , undress you and come now to bed .
Then music with her silver sound With speedy help doth lend redress .
Give me a living reason she 's disloyal .
This says she now when she is beginning to write to him , for she 'll be up twenty times a night , and there will she sit in her smock till she have writ a sheet of paper . My daughter tells us all .
That island of England breeds very valiant creatures . Their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage .
Lear 's shadow .
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead , Till of this flat a mountain you have made , T ' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head Of blue Olympus .
Good morrow to my sovereign king and queen , And , princely peers , a happy time of day .
Not for Cadwallader and all his goats .
Hold , sir , for God 's sake ! Now your jest is earnest . Upon what bargain do you give it me ?
Where is she ?
The foul fiend bites my back .
Where may we set our horses ?
No , in truth , sir , he should not . " Deceiving me " is Thisbe 's cue . She is to enter now and I am to spy her through the wall . You shall see , it will fall pat as I told you . Yonder she comes .
O Seigneur Dieu ! Je m'en oublie ; " d' elbow . " Comment appelez-vous le col ?
So thou mayst say the king lies by a beggar if a beggar dwell near him , or the church stands by thy tabor , if thy tabor stand by the church .
O Kate , content thee . Prithee , be not angry .
Faith , sir , you need not fear . When we were boys , Who would believe that there were mountaineers Dewlapped like bulls , whose throats had hanging at ' em Wallets of flesh , or that there were such men Whose heads stood in their breasts?- -which now we find Each putter - out of five for one will bring us Good warrant of .
Think , my lord ?
Good Hamlet , cast thy nighted color off , And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark . Do not forever with thy vailed lids Seek for thy noble father in the dust . Thou know 'st ' tis common . All that lives must die , Passing through nature to eternity .
Too much of water hast thou , poor Ophelia , And therefore I forbid my tears . But yet It is our trick . Nature her custom holds , Let shame say what it will . When these are gone , The woman will be out . --Adieu , my lord . I have a speech of fire that fain would blaze , But that this folly doubts it .
Nurse ?
By heaven , I would most gladly have forgot it . Thou saidst --Oh , it comes o'er my memory , As doth the raven o'er the infectious house , Boding to all -- he had my handkerchief .
This interchange of love , I here protest , Upon my part shall be inviolable .
Gentles , perchance you wonder at this show . But wonder on , till truth make all things plain . This man is Pyramus , if you would know . This beauteous lady Thisbe is certain . This man , with lime and roughcast , doth present Wall , that vile wall which did these lovers sunder . And through Wall 's chink , poor souls , they are content To whisper . At the which let no man wonder . This man , with lanthorn , dog , and bush of thorn , Presenteth Moonshine . For , if you will know , By moonshine did these lovers think no scorn To meet at Ninus ' tomb -- there , there to woo . This grisly beast , which " Lion " hight by name , The trusty Thisbe , coming first by night , Did scare away , or rather did affright . And , as she fled , her mantle she did fall , Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain . Anon comes Pyramus , sweet youth and tall , And finds his trusty Thisbe 's mantle slain . Whereat , with blade , with bloody blameful blade , He bravely broached his boiling bloody breast . And Thisbe , tarrying in mulberry shade , His dagger drew , and died . For all the rest , Let Lion , Moonshine , Wall , and lovers twain At large discourse , while here they do remain .
With me in your company ?
Caesar and Lepidus Are in the field . A mighty strength they carry .
The actors are come hither , my lord .
Who must hang them ?
Now , divine air ! Now is his soul ravished . Is it not strange that sheeps ' guts should hale souls out of men 's bodies ? Well , a horn for my money , when all' s done .
In private ?
Oh , ho , monster , we know what belongs to a frippery . -- O King Stephano !
Your son , my lord , has paid a soldier 's debt . He only lived but till he was a man , The which no sooner had his prowess confirmed In the unshrinking station where he fought , But like a man he died .
And , England , if my love thou hold 'st at aught -- As my great power thereof may give thee sense , Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red After the Danish sword and thy free awe
My lord , his majesty commended him to you by young Osric , who brings back to him that you attend him in the hall . He sends to know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes , or that you will take longer time .
I do forget . Do not muse at me , my most worthy friends . I have a strange infirmity , which is nothing To those that know me . Come , love and health to all . Then I 'll sit down . Give me some wine . Fill full .
Most radiant , exquisite and unmatchable beauty --I pray you , tell me if this be the lady of the house , for I never saw her . I would be loath to cast away my speech , for besides that it is excellently well penned , I have taken great pains to con it . Good beauties , let me sustain no scorn . I am very comptible , even to the least sinister usage .
I will not trust you , I , Nor longer stay in your curst company . Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray . My legs are longer though , to run away .
And in thy best consideration check This hideous rashness . Answer my life my judgment , Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least , Nor are those empty - hearted whose low sound Reverbs no hollowness .
That 's but a cavil : he is old , I young .
Thus high , by thy advice And thy assistance is King Richard seated . But shall we wear these glories for a day , Or shall they last and we rejoice in them ?
Happily met , the happier for thy son . And now by law as well as reverend age , I may entitle thee my loving father . The sister to my wife , this gentlewoman , Thy son by this hath married . Wonder not Nor be grieved . She is of good esteem , Her dowry wealthy , and of worthy birth . Beside , so qualified as may beseem The spouse of any noble gentleman .
What must be shall be .
Going to find a barefoot brother out , One of our order , to associate me , Here in this city visiting the sick , And finding him , the searchers of the town , Suspecting that we both were in a house Where the infectious pestilence did reign , Sealed up the doors and would not let us forth . So that my speed to Mantua there was stayed .
Peace , silence ! Brutus speaks .
Which God revenge !
Hark , how hard he fetches breath . Search his pockets .
How can she thus then call us by our names -- Unless it be by inspiration ?
Now , by this hand , I gave it to a youth , A kind of boy , a little scrubbed boy No higher than thyself , the judge 's clerk , A prating boy that begged it as a fee . I could not for my heart deny it him .
Oh , but she is wise .
Prithee , let her alone , and list to me .
Do not torment me , prithee . I 'll bring my wood home faster .
Why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter ?
I do but stay till your marriage be consummate , and then go I toward Aragon .
If that an eye may profit by a tongue , Then should I know you by description . Such garments , and such years . " The boy is fair , Of female favor , and bestows himself Like a ripe sister ; the woman low And browner than her brother . " Are not you The owner of the house I did inquire for ?
Farewell , good Charles .
He that is giddy thinks the world turns round .
Where I did meet thee once with Helena To do observance to a morn of May -- There will I stay for thee .
God ' ild you , sir . I desire you of the like . I press in here , sir , amongst the rest of the country copulatives , to swear and to forswear , according as marriage binds and blood breaks . A poor virgin , sir , an ill - favored thing , sir , but mine own . A poor humor of mine , sir , to take that that no man else will . Rich honesty dwells like a miser , sir , in a poor house , as your pearl in your foul oyster .
Nor for yours neither . Y ' have ungently , Brutus , Stole from my bed . And yesternight , at supper , You suddenly arose and walked about , Musing and sighing , with your arms across , And when I asked you what the matter was , You stared upon me with ungentle looks . I urged you further , then you scratched your head And too impatiently stamped with your foot . Yet I insisted ; yet you answered not , But with an angry wafture of your hand Gave sign for me to leave you . So I did , Fearing to strengthen that impatience Which seemed too much enkindled , and withal Hoping it was but an effect of humor , Which sometime hath his hour with every man . It will not let you eat nor talk nor sleep , And could it work so much upon your shape As it hath much prevailed on your condition , I should not know you , Brutus . Dear my lord , Make me acquainted with your cause of grief .
Why , there is it . Come sing me a bawdy song , make me merry . I was as virtuously given as a gentleman need to be , virtuous enough : swore little ; diced not above seven times -- a week ; went to a bawdy house once in a quarter -- of an hour ; paid money that I borrowed , three or four times ; lived well and in good compass ; and now I live out of all order , out of all compass .
I do not cross you . But I will do so .
O gentle lady , do not put me to ' t , For I am nothing , if not critical .
Tarry , Jew . The law hath yet another hold on you . It is enacted in the laws of Venice , If it be proved against an alien That by direct or indirect attempts He seek the life of any citizen , The party ' gainst the which he doth contrive Shall seize one half his goods . The other half Comes to the privy coffer of the state , And the offender 's life lies in the mercy Of the Duke only ' gainst all other voice . In which predicament I say thou stand'st , For it appears by manifest proceeding That indirectly -- and directly too -- Thou hast contrived against the very life Of the defendant , and thou hast incurred The danger formerly by me rehearsed . Down , therefore , and beg mercy of the Duke .
With good acceptance of his Majesty -- Save that there was not time enough to hear , As I perceived his Grace would fain have done , The severals and unhidden passages Of his true titles to some certain dukedoms , And generally to the crown and seat of France , Derived from Edward , his great - grandfather .
Why , then I see A very valiant rebel of the name . I am the Prince of Wales ; and think not , Percy , To share with me in glory any more . Two stars keep not their motion in one sphere , Nor can one England brook a double reign , Of Harry Percy and the Prince of Wales .
Why ?
Robin Starveling , you must play Thisbe 's mother . --Tom Snout , the tinker ?
Yes , that the king is dead .
I 'll hold my mind were she an Ethiope .
The world and my great office will sometimes Divide me from your bosom .
You know since Pentecost the sum is due , And since I have not much importuned you , Nor now I had not , but that I am bound To Persia , and want guilders for my voyage . Therefore make present satisfaction , Or I 'll attach you by this officer .
Among them know you one Vincentio ?
Question : why , an hour in clamor and a quarter in rheum . Therefore is it most expedient for the wise , if Don Worm , his conscience , find no impediment to the contrary , to be the trumpet of his own virtues , as I am to myself . So much for praising myself , who , I myself will bear witness , is praiseworthy . An now tell me , how doth your cousin ?
You are i ' the right , sir , ' tis for my mistress .
Scratch my head , Peaseblossom . Where 's Monsieur Cobweb ?
A valiant and most expert gentleman . --Would it were day ! Alas , poor Harry of England ! He longs not for the dawning as we do .
If you swear , my lord , you shall not be forsworn . ( to DON JOHN ) Let me bid you welcome , my lord . Being reconciled to the Prince your brother , I owe you all duty .
And why , I pray you ? Who might be your mother , That you insult , exult , and all at once , Over the wretched ? What though you have no beauty -- As , by my faith , I see no more in you Than without candle may go dark to bed -- Must you be therefore proud and pitiless ? Why , what means this ? Why do you look on me ? I see no more in you than in the ordinary Of nature 's sale - work . -- ' Od 's my little life , I think she means to tangle my eyes , too . --No , faith , proud mistress , hope not after it . ' Tis not your inky brows , your black silk hair , Your bugle eyeballs , nor your cheek of cream That can entame my spirits to your worship . --You foolish shepherd , wherefore do you follow her , Like foggy south puffing with wind and rain ? You are a thousand times a properer man Than she a woman . ' Tis such fools as you That makes the world full of ill - favored children . ' Tis not her glass but you that flatters her , And out of you she sees herself more proper Than any of her lineaments can show her . --But , mistress , know yourself . Down on your knees And thank heaven , fasting , for a good man 's love , For I must tell you friendly in your ear , Sell when you can ; you are not for all markets . Cry the man mercy , love him , take his offer . Foul is most foul , being foul to be a scoffer . --So take her to thee , shepherd . Fare you well .
Are these , I pray you , wind instruments ?
How now , mistress ?
Tut , I came not to hear this .
What is my name ? Whither am I going ? Where do I dwell ? Am I a married man or a bachelor ? Then , to answer every man directly and briefly , wisely and truly -- wisely I say , I am a bachelor .
Oh , no , good Kate . Neither art thou the worse For this poor furniture and mean array . If thou account 'st it shame , lay it on me , And therefore frolic ! We will hence forthwith To feast and sport us at thy father 's house . Go , call my men , and let us straight to him , And bring our horses unto Long Lane end . There will we mount , and thither walk on foot . Let 's see , I think ' tis now some seven o'clock , And well we may come there by dinnertime .
And welcome , welcome ! Die when thou hast lived . Quicken with kissing . Had my lips that power , Thus would I wear them out .
Give us the swords ; we have bucklers of our own .
This part of his conjoins with my disease And helps to end me . See , sons , what things you are , How quickly nature falls into revolt When gold becomes her object ! For this the foolish overcareful fathers Have broke their sleep with thoughts , Their brains with care , their bones with industry . For this they have engrossed and piled up The canker 'd heaps of strange - achieved gold . For this they have been thoughtful to invest Their sons with arts and martial exercises -- When , like the bee , tolling from every flower The virtuous sweets , Our thighs packed with wax , our mouths with honey , We bring it to the hive and , like the bees , Are murdered for our pains . This bitter taste Yield his engrossments to the ending father .
No , by mine honor , but I was bid to come for you .
In Sicyon . Her length of sickness , with what else more serious Importeth thee to know , this bears .
So hangs and lolls and weeps upon me , so shakes , and pulls me ! Ha , ha , ha !
Then , my queen , in silence sad , Trip we after the night 's shade . We the globe can compass soon Swifter than the wandering moon .
A cup of wine that 's brisk and fine , And drink unto thee , leman mine , And a merry heart lives long - a .
Faith , e' en with losing his wits .
Go you before , and I will follow you .
O , my fair cousin , I must not say so .
Be near at hand , I may miscarry in ' t .
O Dorset , speak not to me . Get thee gone . Death and destruction dogs thee at thy heels . Thy mother 's name is ominous to children . If thou wilt outstrip death , go , cross the seas , And live with Richmond , from the reach of hell . Go , hie thee , hie thee from this slaughterhouse , Lest thou increase the number of the dead And make me die the thrall of Margaret 's curse , Nor mother , wife , nor England 's counted queen .
That 's my sister .
Sirrah , your father 's dead . And what will you do now ? How will you live ?
Be better suited . These weeds are memories of those worser hours . I prithee , put them off .
Why have you stol'n upon us thus ? You come not Like Caesar 's sister . The wife of Antony Should have an army for an usher and The neighs of horse to tell of her approach Long ere she did appear . The trees by th ' way Should have borne men , and expectation fainted , Longing for what it had not . Nay , the dust Should have ascended to the roof of heaven , Raised by your populous troops . But you are come A market - maid to Rome and have prevented The ostentation of our love , which , left unshown , Is often left unloved . We should have met you By sea and land , supplying every stage With an augmented greeting .
I 'll answer that .
I had rather break mine own . Good my lord , enter .
Why do you speak , too , " Why blame you me to love you ? " ?
Great happiness !
What , man ?
Many will swoon when they do look on blood .
No more words . Let 's have her .
Alla nostra casa ben venuto , molto honorato signor mio Petruchio . --Rise , Grumio , rise . We will compound this quarrel .
I know what you would say : if I have known her , You will say she did embrace me as a husband , And so extenuate the forehand sin . No , Leonato , I never tempted her with word too large But , as a brother to his sister , showed Bashful sincerity and comely love .
With Rosaline , my ghostly Father ? No. I have forgot that name and that name 's woe .
My King , my Jove , I speak to thee , my heart !
Why did you so cry out , sirs , in your sleep ?
Here is neither cheer , sir , nor welcome . We would fain have either .
Madam , good night . I humbly thank your ladyship .
It is but as a body yet distempered , Which to his former strength may be restored With good advice and little medicine . My Lord Northumberland will soon be cooled .
I 'll go , my lord , and tell him what you say .
Oui , dat de tongues of de mans is be full of deceits ; dat is de princess .
Now , unto thy bones good night ! Yearly will I do this rite .
Nay , but who is it ?
Proceed , Solinus , to procure my fall , And by the doom of death end woes and all .
I must attend the duke at dinner . By two o'clock I will be with thee again .
" De nails , " madame .
Was never mother had so dear a loss . Alas , I am the mother of these griefs . Their woes are parceled ; mine are general . She for an Edward weeps , and so do I ; I for a Clarence weep ; so doth not she . These babes for Clarence weep and so do I ; I for an Edward weep ; so do not they . Alas , you three , on me , threefold distressed , Pour all your tears . I am your sorrow 's nurse , And I will pamper it with lamentations .
At the old place , my lord , in Eastcheap .
Thy yellow stockings ?
Had you such leisure in the time of death To gaze upon the secrets of the deep ?
Francis !
Say , uncle Gloucester , if our brother come , Where shall we sojourn till our coronation ?
O Ratcliffe , I have dreamed a fearful dream ! What think 'st thou , will our friends prove all true ?
Away ! I will not have to do with you .
He will be talking .
Marry , God defend his grace should say us nay !
Friends to this ground .
Do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day , lest he knock that about yours .
Now I but chide , but I should use thee worse . For thou , I fear , hast given me cause to curse . If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep , Being o'er shoes in blood , plunge in the deep , And kill me too .
By my troth , Sir Toby , you must come in earlier o ' nights . Your cousin , my lady , takes great exceptions to your ill hours .
No more of that , good Master Shallow , no more of that .
Would it were mortal poison for thy sake .
Well , thou dost best .
Have I not in a pitched battle heard Loud ' larums , neighing steeds , and trumpets ' clang ? And do you tell me of a woman 's tongue That gives not half so great a blow to hear As will a chestnut in a farmer 's fire ? Tush , tush ! Fear boys with bugs .
Good day and happiness , dear Rosalind .
To his good friends thus wide I 'll ope my arms And , like the kind life - rendering pelican , Repast them with my blood .
There 's strange news come , sir .
Who , he ? I think the sun where he was born Drew all such humors from him .
O , come , let us remove . The sight of lovers feedeth those in love . -- Bring us to this sight , and you shall say I 'll prove a busy actor in their play .
If that thy father live , let him repent Thou wast not made his daughter , and be thou sorry To follow Caesar in his triumph , since Thou hast been whipped for following him . Henceforth The white hand of a lady fever thee ; Shake thou to look on ' t . Get thee back to Caesar . Tell him thy entertainment . Look thou say He makes me angry with him , for he seems Proud and disdainful , harping on what I am , Not what he knew I was . He makes me angry , And at this time most easy ' tis to do ' t , When my good stars , that were my former guides , Have empty left their orbs and shot their fires Into th ' abysm of hell . If he mislike My speech and what is done , tell him he has Hipparchus , my enfranched bondman , whom He may at pleasure whip , or hang , or torture , As he shall like , to quit me . Urge it thou . Hence with thy stripes , begone !
Why , Sir John , what do you think , Sir John , do you think I keep thieves in my house ? I have searched , I have enquired , so has my husband , man by man , boy by boy , servant by servant . The tithe of a hair was never lost in my house before .
Sorry I am my noble cousin should Suspect me that I mean no good to him . By heaven , we come to him in perfect love , And so once more return and tell his grace .
' Tis a vile thing to die , my gracious lord , When men are unprepared and look not for it .
Yet tell her of it . Hear what she will say .
Go , sirrah , trudge about Through fair Verona . Find those persons out Whose names are written there , and to them say My house and welcome on their pleasure stay .
The revelers are entering , brother . Make good room .
I did , my lord .
Help ! Help , ho , help ! O lady , speak again ! Sweet Desdemona ! O sweet mistress , speak !
Nature 's above art in that respect . There 's your press - money . That fellow handles his bow like a crowkeeper . Draw me a clothier 's yard . Look , look , a mouse ! Peace ,
Good morrow , Ned .
A quarrel , ho , already ? What 's the matter ?
Dost thou think so , spirit ?
Strike !
Alas , poor shepherd .
Then , world , thou hast a pair of chaps , no more , And throw between them all the food thou hast , They 'll grind the one the other . Where 's Antony ?
What 's your will ?
Is this the monument of Leonato ?
Maybe the letter moved him , For , as I think , they do command him home , Deputing Cassio in his government .
So do I ever being well - advised , For had I cursed now , I had cursed myself .
' Tis a strange truth .
Gentlemen , content ye . I am resolved . -- Go in , Bianca .
The complaints I hear of thee are grievous .
Amen to that , sweet powers ! I cannot speak enough of this content . It stops me here , it is too much of joy . And this , and this , the greatest discords be That e' er our hearts shall make !
Be you his eunuch , and your mute I 'll be . When my tongue blabs , then let mine eyes not see .
Thou know 'st that all my fortunes are at sea . Neither have I money nor commodity To raise a present sum . Therefore go forth , Try what my credit can in Venice do -- That shall be racked even to the uttermost To furnish thee to Belmont , to fair Portia . Go presently inquire , and so will I , Where money is , and I no question make To have it of my trust or for my sake .
Well , you temporize with the hours . In the meantime , good Signior Benedick , repair to Leonato 's . Commend me to him and tell him I will not fail him at supper , for indeed he hath made great preparation .
What was the second noise for ?
They shall go forward , Kate , at thy command . -- Obey the bride , you that attend on her . Go to the feast , revel and domineer , Carouse full measure to her maidenhead , Be mad and merry , or go hang yourselves . But for my bonny Kate , she must with me . Nay , look not big , nor stamp , nor stare , nor fret ; I will be master of what is mine own . She is my goods , my chattels ; she is my house , My household stuff , my field , my barn , My horse , my ox , my ass , my anything . And here she stands , touch her whoever dare . I 'll bring mine action on the proudest he That stops my way in Padua . --Grumio , Draw forth thy weapon , we are beset with thieves . Rescue thy mistress if thou be a man . -- Fear not , sweet wench , they shall not touch thee , Kate . I 'll buckler thee against a million .
Alas for both , both mine , Edward and Clarence !
Fool !
I know you by the waggling of your head .
Holla ! Stand there !
Why , ' tis found so .
He is very busy about it . But , brother , I can tell you strange news that you yet dreamt not of .
That ever I should call thee castaway !
What , will you have them weep our horses ' blood ? How shall we then behold their natural tears ?
O , my sweet beef , I must still be good angel to thee . The money is paid back again .
All the power of his wits have given way to his impatience . The gods reward your kindness !
I met the youthful lord at Lawrence ' cell , And gave him what becomed love I might , Not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty .
And tell us what occasion of import Hath all so long detained you from your wife And sent you hither so unlike yourself .
Come , come with me , and we will make short work . For , by your leaves , you shall not stay alone Till holy church incorporate two in one .
What , of Venice ?
Saw who ?
Oh yes , I saw sweet beauty in her face Such as the daughter of Agenor had , That made great Jove to humble him to her hand When with his knees he kissed the Cretan strand .
Come , sir .
Mount them and make incision in their hides , That their hot blood may spin in English eyes And dout them with superfluous courage . Ha !
I charge thee do so , as thou art my child .
I will have nothing else but only this . And now methinks I have a mind to it .
I am not so well as I should be , but I 'll ne'er out .
I 'll bring him the best ' parel that I have , Come on ' t what will .
Soft son . -- Sir , by your leave , having come to Padua To gather in some debts , my son Lucentio Made me acquainted with a weighty cause Of love between your daughter and himself . And , for the good report I hear of you And for the love he beareth to your daughter And she to him , to stay him not too long , I am content , in a good father 's care , To have him matched . And if you please to like No worse than I , upon some agreement Me shall you find ready and willing With one consent to have her so bestowed , For curious I cannot be with you , Signior Baptista , of whom I hear so well .
Tell thou the Earl That the Lord Bardolph doth attend him here .
No , fair princess . He is the general challenger . I come but in as others do , to try with him the strength of my youth .
He 's that he is . I may not breathe my censure What he might be . If what he might he is not , I would to heaven he were !
We have , my liege .
Hath he asked for me ?
" Was " is not " is . " Besides , the oath of a lover is no stronger than the word of a tapster . They are both the confirmer of false reckonings . He attends here in the forest on the duke your father .
Good my lord .
Nay , come , I prithee . Would thou'dst be ruled by me !
I like him very well .
For two , and sound ones too .
My love thou art , my love , I think .
What 's the matter , think you ?
Gratiano !
Madam , the young gentleman of the Count Orsino 's is returned . I could hardly entreat him back . He attends your ladyship 's pleasure .
For the best turn i ' th ' bed .
That shows thee a weak slave , for the weakest goes to the wall .
No place , indeed , should murder sanctuarize . Revenge should have no bounds . But , good Laertes , Will you do this , keep close within your chamber . Hamlet returned shall know you are come home . We 'll put on those shall praise your excellence And set a double varnish on the fame The Frenchman gave you , bring you in fine together And wager on your heads . He , being remiss , Most generous and free from all contriving , Will not peruse the foils ; so that , with ease , Or with a little shuffling , you may choose A sword unbated , and in a pass of practice Requite him for your father .
Honest , my lord ?
Marry , to --
Adieu .
Well , the fuel is gone that maintained that fire . That 's all the riches I got in his service .
A crow without feather ? Master , mean you so ? For a fish without a fin , there 's a fowl without a feather . -- If a crow help us in , sirrah , we 'll pluck a crow together .
Why dost thou call him " knave " ? What 's his offense ?
Never , Regan . She hath abated me of half my train , Looked black upon me , struck me with her tongue , Most serpentlike , upon the very heart . All the stored vengeances of heaven fall On her ingrateful top ! Strike her young bones , You taking airs , with lameness !
Thus says my king : " Say thou to Harry of England , though we seemed dead , we did but sleep . Advantage is a better soldier than rashness . Tell him we could have rebuked him at Harfleur , but that we thought not good to bruise an injury till it were full ripe . Now we speak upon our cue , and our voice is imperial . England shall repent his folly , see his
Anon !
Because their legs are both of a bigness , and he plays at quoits well , and eats conger and fennel , and drinks off candles ' ends for flap - dragons , and rides the wild mare with the boys , and jumps upon joint stools , and swears with a good grace , and wears his boots very smooth , like unto the sign of the Leg , and breeds no bate with telling of discreet stories , and such other gambol faculties he has that show a weak mind and an able body , for the which the Prince admits him ; for the Prince himself is such another . The weight of a hair will turn the scales between their avoirdupois .
Lay her a - hold , a - hold ! Set her two courses off to sea again . Lay her off !
He sent me hither , stranger as I am , To tell this story , that you might excuse His broken promise , and to give this napkin Dyed in his blood unto the shepherd youth That he in sport doth call his Rosalind .
It would cost you a groaning to take off mine edge .
My brave spirit ! Who was so firm , so constant , that this coil Would not infect his reason ?
Dost thou look up ?
Marry , sir , here 's my drift : You , laying these slight sullies on my son As ' twere a thing a little soiled i ' th ' working -- Mark you , your party in converse , him you would sound , Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes The youth you breathe of guilty , be assured He closes with you in this consequence : " Good sir " or so , or " Friend , " or " Gentleman , " According to the phrase or the addition Of man and country .
Please you retire to your chamber ?
I doubt it not , sir , but you will curse your wooing . -- Neighbor , this is a gift very grateful , I am sure of it . To express the like kindness , myself , that have been more kindly beholding to you than any , freely give unto you this young scholar that hath been long studying at Rheims , as cunning in Greek , Latin , and other languages as the other in music and mathematics . His name is Cambio . Pray accept his service .
We 'll know all our fortunes .
So be it .
A gentleman , Nurse , that loves to hear himself talk , and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month .
No , my lord , unless I might have another for working days . Your Grace is too costly to wear every day . But I beseech your Grace pardon me . I was born to speak all mirth and no matter .
Adieu . Be happy .
I understand not what you mean by this .
This avarice Sticks deeper , grows with more pernicious root Than summer - seeming lust , and it hath been The sword of our slain kings . Yet do not fear ; Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will , Of your mere own . All these are portable , With other graces weighed .
As hell , Sir Topas .
That our garments , being , as they were , drenched in the sea , hold notwithstanding their freshness and glosses , being rather new - dyed than stained with salt water .
O , speak to me no more ! These words like daggers enter in my ears . No more , sweet Hamlet .
I will not stay thy questions . Let me go . Or if thou follow me , do not believe But I shall do thee mischief in the wood .
Sit thee down , Clitus . Slaying is the word . It is a deed in fashion . Hark thee , Clitus .
For this relief much thanks . ' Tis bitter cold , And I am sick at heart .
Alas Iago , What shall I do to win my lord again ? Good friend , go to him . For , by this light of heaven , I know not how I lost him . Here I kneel : If e' er my will did trespass ' gainst his love , Either in discourse of thought or actual deed , Or that mine eyes , mine ears , or any sense , Delighted them , or any other form , Or that I do not yet , and ever did ,
Ay , marry , am I , sir ; and now ' tis plotted !
How many fond fools serve mad jealousy !
Think upon Grey , and let thy soul despair !
Romeo !
This was the noblest Roman of them all . All the conspirators save only he Did that they did in envy of great Caesar . He only in a general honest thought And common good to all , made one of them . His life was gentle , and the elements So mixed in him that Nature might stand up And say to all the world , " This was a man . "
Most learned judge , a sentence ! Come , prepare .
Come , come , no more of this unprofitable chat .
I remember a mass of things , but nothing distinctly . A quarrel , but nothing wherefore . Oh , that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains ! That we should , with joy , pleasance revel and applause , transform ourselves into beasts !
Open your ears , for which of you will stop The vent of hearing when loud Rumor speaks ? I , from the orient to the drooping west , Making the wind my post - horse , still unfold The acts commenced on this ball of earth . Upon my tongues continual slanders ride , The which in every language I pronounce , Stuffing the ears of men with false reports . I speak of peace while covert enmity Under the smile of safety wounds the world . And who but Rumor , who but only I , Make fearful musters and prepared defense , Whiles the big year , swoll'n with some other grief , Is thought with child by the stern tyrant war , And no such matter ? Rumor is a pipe Blown by surmises , jealousies , conjectures , And of so easy and so plain a stop That the blunt monster with uncounted heads , The still - discordant wav'ring multitude , Can play upon it . But what need I thus My well-known body to anatomize Among my household ? Why is Rumor here ? I run before King Harry 's victory , Who in a bloody field by Shrewsbury Hath beaten down young Hotspur and his troops , Quenching the flame of bold rebellion Even with the rebels ' blood . But what mean I To speak so true at first ? My office is To noise abroad that Harry Monmouth fell
Vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue .
What touches us ourself shall be last served .
Your Majesty , hear now , saving your Majesty 's manhood , what an arrant , rascally , beggarly , lousy knave it is . I hope your Majesty is pear me testimony and witness , and will avouchment that this is the glove of Alencon that your Majesty is give me , in your conscience now .
O God , your only jig - maker . What should a man do but be merry ? For , look you , how cheerfully my mother looks , and my father died within these two hours .
Out of her favor , where I am in love .
Upon mine honor , sir , I heard a humming , And that a strange one too , which did awake me . I shaked you , sir , and cried . As mine eyes opened , I saw their weapons drawn . There was a noise , That 's verily . ' Tis best we stand upon our guard , Or that we quit this place . Let 's draw our weapons .
There 's five to one . Besides , they all are fresh .
Ill rest betide the chamber where thou liest !
Very sweet and contagious , i ' faith .
And can you by no drift of conference Get from him why he puts on this confusion , Grating so harshly all his days of quiet With turbulent and dangerous lunacy ?
Defy him by the Lord of Westmoreland .
He doth nothing but frown , as who should say , " An you will not have me , choose . " He hears merry tales and smiles not . I fear he will prove the weeping philosopher when he grows old , being so full of unmannerly sadness in his youth . I had rather be married to a death's-head with a bone in his mouth than to either of these . God defend me from these two !
O despiteful love ! Unconstant womankind ! I tell thee , Litio , this is wonderful !
Stand you awhile apart , Confine yourself but in a patient list . Whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief -- A passion most resulting such a man -- Cassio came hither . I shifted him away And laid good 'scuses upon your ecstasy ,
We hear our bloody cousins are bestowed In England and in Ireland , not confessing Their cruel parricide , filling their hearers With strange invention . But of that tomorrow , When therewithal we shall have cause of state Craving us jointly . Hie you to horse . Adieu , Till your return at night . Goes Fleance with you ?
From enemies heaven keep your Majesty , And when they stand against you , may they fall As those that I am come to tell you of . The Earl Northumberland and the Lord Bardolph , With a great power of English and of Scots , Are by the shrieve of Yorkshire overthrown . The manner and true order of the fight This packet , please it you , contains at large .
Be not too tame neither , but let your own discretion be your tutor . Suit the action to the word , the word to the action , with this special observance that you o'erstep not the modesty of nature . For anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing , whose end , both at the first and now , was and is to hold , as ' twere , the mirror up to nature , to show virtue her own feature , scorn her own image , and the very age and body of the time his form and pressure . Now this overdone or come tardy off , though it make the unskillful laugh , cannot but make the judicious grieve , the censure of the which one must in your allowance o'erweigh a whole theatre of others .
Good night , and better health Attend his majesty !
Nay , good goose , bite not .
A thousand , sir , Early though ' t be , have on their riveted trim And at the port expect you .
This strained passion doth you wrong , my lord .
And a good soldier to a lady , but what is he to a lord ?
Gentleman , God save thee .
Out , scab !
I will prove it legitimate , sir , upon the oaths of judgment and reason .
Comfort , dear mother . God is much displeased That you take with unthankfulness , his doing . In common worldly things , ' tis called ungrateful With dull unwillingness to repay a debt Which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent ; Much more to be thus opposite with heaven , For it requires the royal debt it lent you .
But when shall we set the savage bull 's horns on the sensible Benedick 's head ?
Sir , look well to my husband 's house , and --
Away , I say , go out , and cry a mutiny . --
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry . Did not you speak ?
Oh , this it is that makes your lady mourn !
I sometimes do believe and sometimes do not , As those that fear they hope , and know they fear .
Marry , if you would put me to verses or to dance for your sake , Kate , why you undid me . For the one , I have neither words nor measure ; and for the other , I have no strength in measure , yet a reasonable measure in strength . If I could win a lady at leapfrog or by vaulting into my saddle with my armor on my back , under the correction of bragging be it spoken , I should quickly leap into a wife . Or if I might buffet for my love or bound my horse for her favors , I could lay on like a butcher and sit like a jackanapes , never off . But , before God , Kate , I cannot look greenly nor gasp out my eloquence , nor I have no cunning in protestation , only
Bear Worcester to the death , and Vernon too . Other offenders we will pause upon .
He is as full of valor as of kindness , Princely in both .
That we find out the cause of this effect , Or rather say , the cause of this defect , For this effect defective comes by cause . Thus it remains , and the remainder thus . Perpend . I have a daughter -- have while she is mine -- Who in her duty and obedience , mark , Hath given me this . Now gather and surmise . " To the celestial and my soul 's idol , the most beautified Ophelia " --That 's an ill phrase , a vile phrase . " Beautified " is a vile phrase . But you shall hear . Thus : " In her excellent white bosom , these , " etc. --
At thy request , monster , I will do reason , any reason . -- Come on , Trinculo , let us sing . Flout ' em and scout ' em , And scout ' em and flout ' em . Thought is free .
Thou still hast been the father of good news .
The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for Cyprus . Othello , the fortitude of the place is best known to you , and though we have there a substitute of most allowed sufficiency , yet opinion , a sovereign mistress of effects , throws a more safer voice on you . You must therefore be content to slubber the gloss of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and boist'rous expedition .
Their preparation is today by sea . We please them not by land .
Here is the number of the slaughtered French .
I 'll be your purse - bearer and leave you For an hour .
What , has his daughters brought him to this pass?- - Couldst thou save nothing ? Wouldst thou give ' em all ?
What dost thou mean ?
No , madam .
That was in thy rage . Speak it again and , even with the word , This hand , which for thy love did kill thy love , Shall for thy love kill a far truer love . To both their deaths shalt thou be accessory .
And time is at his period .
Yet Edmund was beloved . The one the other poisoned for my sake , And after slew herself .
Quarrel no more , but be prepared to know The purposes I bear , which are or cease As you shall give th ' advice . By the fire That quickens Nilus ' slime , I go from hence Thy soldier , servant , making peace or war As thou affects .
Under Captain Gower , my liege .
The King your father is at Westminster , And there are twenty weak and wearied posts Come from the north , and as I came along I met and overtook a dozen captains , Bareheaded , sweating , knocking at the taverns And asking everyone for Sir John Falstaff .
The fouler fortune mine , and there an end .
Ay , my lord .
Even so great men great losses should endure .
Thomas Wart !
Things growing are not ripe until their season . So I , being young , till now ripe not to reason . And touching now the point of human skill , Reason becomes the marshal to my will And leads me to your eyes , where I o'erlook Love 's stories written in love 's richest book .
Stay , and breathe awhile . Thou hast redeemed thy lost opinion And showed thou mak 'st some tender of my life In this fair rescue thou hast brought to me .
Where are my Switzers ? Let them guard the door .
Mark but the badges of these men , my lords , Then say if they be true . This misshapen knave , His mother was a witch , and one so strong That could control the moon , make flows and ebbs , And deal in her command without her power . These three have robbed me , and this demi-devil -- For he 's a bastard one -- had plotted with them To take my life . Two of these fellows you Must know and own . This thing of darkness I Acknowledge mine .
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome . There are more things in heaven and earth , Horatio , Than are dreamt of in your philosophy . But come , Here , as before , never , so help you mercy , How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself ( As I perchance hereafter shall think meet To put an antic disposition on ) , That you , at such times seeing me , never shall -- With arms encumbered thus , or this headshake , Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase , As " Well , well , we know , " or " We could an if we would , " Or " If we list to speak , " or " There be an if they might , " Or such ambiguous giving out -- to note That you know aught of me . This not to do , So grace and mercy at your most need help you , Swear .
Please you . But I had rather kill two enemies .
Is he gone ?
Where 's Shadow ?
My lord , we will not .
It is indifferent cold , my lord , indeed .
The king is a good king , but it must be as it may . He passes some humors and careers .
Fool , I say !
What 's that ?
Why , there 's more gold . But , sirrah , mark , we use To say the dead are well . Bring it to that , The gold I give thee will I melt and pour Down thy ill - uttering throat .
You may light on a husband that hath no beard .
What , marry , may she ? Marry with a king , A bachelor , a handsome stripling too . I wis , your grandam had a worser match .
Your Majesty says very true . If your Majesties is remembered of it , the Welshmen did good service in a garden where leeks did grow , wearing leeks in their Monmouth caps , which , your Majesty know , to this hour is an honorable badge of the service . And I do believe your Majesty takes no scorn to wear the leek upon Saint Tavy 's day .
Well , I am loath to gall a new - healed wound . Your day 's service at Shrewsbury hath a little gilded over your night 's exploit on Gad 's Hill . You may thank th ' unquiet time for your quiet o'erposting that action .
And cast you , with the waters that you loose , To temper clay . Yea , is ' t come to this ? Ha ? Let it be so . I have another daughter , Who I am sure is kind and comfortable . When she shall hear this of thee , with her nails She 'll flay thy wolvish visage . Thou shalt find That I 'll resume the shape which thou dost think I have cast off for ever . Thou shalt , I warrant thee .
I would have him nine years a - killing . A fine woman ! A fair woman ! A sweet woman !
Indeed , my lord , he lent it me awhile , and I gave him use for it , a double heart for his single one . Marry , once before he won it of me with false dice . Therefore your Grace may well say I have lost it .
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it As he in his particular act and place May give his saying deed , which is no further Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal . Then weigh what loss your honor may sustain If with too credent ear you list his songs , Or lose your heart , or your chaste treasure open To his unmastered importunity . Fear it , Ophelia . Fear it , my dear sister , And keep you in the rear of your affection , Out of the shot and danger of desire . The chariest maid is prodigal enough If she unmask her beauty to the moon . Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes . The canker galls the infants of the spring Too oft before their buttons be disclosed . And in the morn and liquid dew of youth , Contagious blastments are most imminent . Be wary , then . Best safety lies in fear . Youth to itself rebels , though none else near .
The ditty does remember my drowned father . This is no mortal business , nor no sound That the earth owes . I hear it now above me .
Signior , is all your family within ?
I ' th ' commonwealth I would by contraries Execute all things . For no kind of traffic Would I admit . No name of magistrate . Letters should not be known . Riches , poverty , And use of service -- none . Contract , succession , Bourn , bound of land , tilth , vineyard -- none . No use of metal , corn , or wine , or oil . No occupation . All men idle , all . And women too , but innocent and pure . No sovereignty --
It is too heavy for your Grace to wear .
Mustardseed .
What thing ! Why , a thing to thank God on .
Why , he drinks you with facility your Dane dead drunk ; he sweats not to overthrow your Almain . He gives your Hollander a vomit ere the next pottle can be filled .
A peace is of the nature of a conquest , For then both parties nobly are subdued , And neither party loser .
A pestilent gall to me !
Beware the ides of March .
No more , I pray you . --Messala , I have here received letters That young Octavius and Mark Antony Come down upon us with a mighty power , Bending their expedition toward Philippi .
Que dit-il , monsieur ?
These gloves the Count sent me , they are an excellent perfume .
And thou a natural coward without instinct .
A dog of the house of Montague moves me .
Ay , forsooth .
Why , what 's the matter ?
But that you do not love me . I pray you bring me on the way a little And say if I shall see you soon at night .
If he be sick with joy , he 'll recover without physic .
My villein !
No.
Hence , prating peasant ! Fetch thy master home .
What , art thou drawn among these heartless hinds ? Turn thee , Benvolio . Look upon thy death .
Good or bad news , that thou com 'st in so bluntly ?
Proof enough to misuse the Prince , to vex Claudio , to undo Hero , and kill Leonato . Look you for any other issue ?
Sure we thank you . My learned lord , we pray you to proceed And justly and religiously unfold Why the law Salic that they have in France Or should or should not bar us in our claim . And God forbid , my dear and faithful lord , That you should fashion , wrest , or bow your reading , Or nicely charge your understanding soul With opening titles miscreate , whose right Suits not in native colors with the truth ; For God doth know how many now in health Shall drop their blood in approbation
I will have none on ' t . We shall lose our time , And all be turned to barnacles or to apes With foreheads villainous low .
You mistake , knight . " Accost " is front her , board her , woo her , assail her .
Why then , my cousin , Margaret , and Ursula Are much deceived , for they did swear you did .
Here comes a messenger . --What news ?
That 's two of his weapons . But well .
Why , with my lord , madam .
What , is he dead ?
You may go walk , and give me leave awhile . My lessons make no music in three parts .
That were a kind of bastard hope indeed . So the sins of my mother should be visited upon me .
As good a man as he , sir , whoe'er I am . Do ye yield , sir , or shall I sweat for you ? If I do sweat , they are the drops of thy lovers and they weep for thy death . Therefore rouse up fear and trembling , and do observance to my mercy .
What , stand 'st thou idle here ? Lend me thy sword . Many a nobleman lies stark and stiff Under the hoofs of vaunting enemies , Whose deaths are yet unrevenged . I prithee , Lend me thy sword .
I sent for you , when there were matters against you for your life , to come speak with me .
The chaplain of the Tower hath buried them , But where , to say the truth , I do not know .
O ye gods , ye gods , must I endure all this ?
He goes before me and still dares me on . When I come where he calls , then he is gone . The villain is much lighter - heeled than I. I followed fast , but faster he did fly , That fallen am I in dark uneven way ,
Oh , villainous ! I have looked upon the world for four times seven years , and since I could distinguish betwixt a benefit and an injury I never found man that knew how to love himself . Ere I would say I would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen , I would change my humanity with a baboon .
Who comes so fast in silence of the night ?
Marry , this is miching malhecho . It means mischief .
Farewell , sweet masters both . I must be gone .
No , they cannot touch me for coining . I am the king himself .
Nor will do none tomorrow . He will keep that good name still .
All but the base .
Cesario is your servant 's name , fair princess .
Whose house ?
Why , that he did --I know not what he did .
Thy asses are gone about ' em . The reason why the seven stars are no more than seven is a pretty reason .
Peace , cousin Percy . You will make him mad .
Nay , you need not fear us , Lorenzo . Launcelot and I are out . He tells me flatly there is no mercy for me in heaven because I am a Jew 's daughter , and he says you are no good member of the commonwealth , for in converting Jews to Christians you raise the price of pork .
She may , my lord , for --
That hath made him mad . I am sorry that with better heed and judgment I had not quoted him . I feared he did but trifle And meant to wreck thee . But beshrew my jealousy ! By heaven , it is as proper to our age To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions As it is common for the younger sort To lack discretion . Come , go we to the king . This must be known , which , being kept close , might move More grief to hide than hate to utter love . Come .
Sir , sir , I will have law in Ephesus , To your notorious shame , I doubt it not .
And twenty caged nightingales do sing : Or wilt thou sleep ? We 'll have thee to a couch Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed On purpose trimmed up for Semiramis . Say thou wilt walk , we will bestrew the ground . Or wilt thou ride ? Thy horses shall be trapped , Their harness studded all with gold and pearl . Dost thou love hawking ? Thou hast hawks will soar Above the morning lark . Or wilt thou hunt ? Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them And fetch shrill echoes from the hollow earth .
O , thou well - skilled in curses , stay awhile , And teach me how to curse mine enemies .
Here comes the man , sir , that did rescue me .
Come , come , I 'll go burn some sack . ' Tis too late to go to bed now . Come , knight . Come , knight .
Do not say so , Lysander . Say not so . What though he love your Hermia ? Lord , what though ? Yet Hermia still loves you . Then be content .
God save thee , my sweet boy !
The English power is near , led on by Malcolm , His uncle Siward and the good Macduff . Revenges burn in them , for their dear causes Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm Excite the mortified man .
Ay , Lepidus .
No more . The text is foolish .
Ill will never said well .
I cannot tell , except they are busied about a counterfeit assurance . Take you assurance of her cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum . To th ' church take the priest , clerk , and some sufficient honest witnesses . If this be not that you look for , I have no more to say , But bid Bianca farewell forever and a day .
Our daughters ' several dowers , that future strife May be prevented now . The two great princes , France and Burgundy , Great rivals in our youngest daughter 's love , Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn , And here are to be answered . --Tell me , my daughters , ( Since now we will divest us both of rule , Interest of territory , cares of state ) Which of you shall we say doth love us most That we our largest bounty may extend Where nature doth with merit challenge?- -Goneril , Our eldest born , speak first .
Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverent youth , and I praise God for you .
Shall I speak a word in your ear ?
The rudeness that hath appeared in me have I learned from my entertainment . What I am and what I would are as secret as maidenhead . To your ears , divinity . To any other 's , profanation .
No ? When Nature hath made a fair creature , may she not by Fortune fall into the fire ? Though Nature hath given us wit to flout at Fortune , hath not Fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument ?
Hail to your lordship .
We wait upon your Grace .
That is most certain .
Yes , Caliban , her son .
Not so , neither . But if I had wit enough to get out of this wood , I have enough to serve mine own turn .
Know 'st thou the way to Dover ?
To anger him , we 'll have the bear again , and we will fool him black and blue . Shall we not , Sir Andrew ?
Here 's goodly gear .
My youngest boy , and yet my eldest care , At eighteen years became inquisitive After his brother , and importuned me That his attendant - so his case was like ,
Many good morrows to my noble lord .
He says , my lord , your daughter is not well .
So can I. So every bondman in his own hand bears The power to cancel his captivity .
Be as thou wast wont to be . See as thou wast wont to see . Dian 's bud o'er Cupid 's flower Hath such force and blessed power . Now , my Titania , wake you , my sweet queen .
They do discharge their shot of courtesy . Our friends at least .
I will seek him , sir , presently , convey the business as I shall find means , and acquaint you withal .
" D' elbow , " madame .
I am , my lord , as well derived as he , As well possessed . My love is more than his . My fortunes every way as fairly ranked , as Demetrius ' . And -- which is more than all these boasts can be -- I am beloved of beauteous Hermia . Why should not I then prosecute my right ? Demetrius , I 'll avouch it to his head , Made love to Nedar 's daughter , Helena , And won her soul . And she , sweet lady , dotes , Devoutly dotes , dotes in idolatry Upon this spotted and inconstant man .
There 's a testril of me too . If one knight give a --
Monday ! Ha , ha . Well , Wednesday is too soon , O ' Thursday let it be . --O ' Thursday , tell her , She shall be married to this noble earl . -- Will you be ready ? Do you like this haste ? We 'll keep no great ado , a friend or two . For , hark you , Tybalt being slain so late , It may be thought we held him carelessly , Being our kinsman , if we revel much . Therefore we 'll have some half a dozen friends , And there an end . But what say you to Thursday ?
Now , princely Buckingham , seal thou this league With thy embracements to my wife 's allies And make me happy in your unity .
Good morrow , good cousin Shallow .
Sir Walter Herbert , a renowned soldier ; Sir Gilbert Talbot , Sir William Stanley , Oxford , redoubted Pembroke , Sir James Blunt , And Rice ap Thomas , with a valiant crew , And many other of great name and worth ; And towards London they do bend their power , If by the way they be not fought withal .
Nay , good my lord , be not afraid of shadows .
I durst go no further than the lie circumstantial , nor he durst not give me the lie direct , and so we measured swords and parted .
If I cannot recover your niece , I am a foul way out .
The Prince of Darkness is a gentleman . Modo he 's called , and Mahu .
May we do so ? You know it is the feast of Lupercal .
I think he be transformed into a beast , For I can nowhere find him like a man .
This , Douglas ? No , I know this face full well . A gallant knight he was ; his name was Blunt , Semblably furnished like the King himself .
Say thou wilt course . Thy greyhounds are as swift As breathed stags , ay , fleeter than the roe .
God keep me so . --Our heralds go with him . Bring me just notice of the numbers dead On both our parts . Call yonder fellow hither .
Jesus bless us !
O my dear brother , This was an ill beginning of the night . Never come such division ' tween our souls . Let it not , Brutus .
Your Majesty came not like yourself . You appeared to me but as a common man . Witness the night , your garments , your lowliness . And what your Highness suffered under that shape , I beseech you take it for your own fault and not mine , for , had you been as I took you for , I made no offense . Therefore , I beseech your Highness pardon me .
Let 's further think of this , Weigh what convenience both of time and means May fit us to our shape . If this should fail , And that our drift look through our bad performance , ' Twere better not assayed . Therefore this project
Revenge ! About ! Seek ! Burn ! Fire ! Kill ! Slay ! Let not a traitor live !
What if I do obey ? How may the Duke be therewith satisfied , Whose messengers are here about my side Upon some present business of the state To bring me to him ?
Go on before . I 'll talk with this good fellow .
I am maimed for ever . Help , ho ! Murder ! Murder !
My noble lord --
Else are they very wretched .
I was , but I do find more pain in banishment Than death can yield me here by my abode . A husband and a son thou ow 'st to me ; And thou a kingdom ; -- all of you , allegiance . The sorrow that I have by right is yours , And all the pleasures you usurp are mine .
Confusion now hath made his masterpiece . Most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope The Lord 's anointed temple , and stole thence The life o ' th ' building !
Beggar that I am , I am even poor in thanks ; but I thank you , and sure , dear friends , my thanks are too dear a halfpenny . Were you not sent for ? Is it your own inclining ? Is it a free visitation ? Come , come , deal justly with me . Come , come . Nay , speak .
About a hoop of gold , a paltry ring That she did give me , whose posy was For all the world like cutler 's poetry Upon a knife , " Love me and leave me not . "
Give me my sword . Who 's there ?
I would scarce trust myself , though I had sworn the contrary , if Hero would be my wife .
Good morrow , cousin Warwick , good morrow .
Have you heard any imputation to the contrary ?
I will hold friends with you , lady .
Hast thou , spirit , Performed to point the tempest that I bade thee ?
And how was that ta'en up ?
Signor Antonio , many a time and oft In the Rialto you have rated me About my moneys and my usances . Still have I borne it with a patient shrug , For sufferance is the badge of all our tribe . You call me misbeliever , cutthroat dog , And spet upon my Jewish gaberdine -- And all for use of that which is mine own . Well then , it now appears you need my help . Go to , then ! You come to me and you say , " Shylock , we would have moneys . " You say so ! -- You , that did void your rheum upon my beard And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur Over your threshold ! Moneys is your suit . What should I say to you ? Should I not say , " Hath a dog money ? Is it possible A cur can lend three thousand ducats ? " Or Shall I bend low and in a bondman 's key With bated breath and whispering humbleness Say this :
Wherefore are these things hid ? Wherefore have these gifts a curtain before ' em ? Are they like to take dust , like Mistress Mall 's picture ? Why dost thou not go to church in a galliard and come home in a coranto ? My very walk should be a jig . I would not so much as make water but in a sink - a - pace . What dost thou mean ? Is it a world to hide virtues in ? I did think , by the excellent constitution of thy leg , it was formed under the star of a galliard .
What did you enact ?
There 's fire ready . And therefore , good Grumio , the news .
An please your Majesty , let his neck answer for it , if there is any martial law in the world .
We have met with foes That strike beside us .
My cake is dough , but I 'll in among the rest , Out of hope of all but my share of the feast .
Pray thee , sweet Mistress Margaret , deserve well at my hands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice .
I did , my lord .
I 'll pay that doctrine or else die in debt .
My master 's man . --Strato , where is thy master ?
In this last tempest . I perceive these lords At this encounter do so much admire That they devour their reason and scarce think Their eyes do offices of truth , their words Are natural breath . --But howsoev'r you have Been justled from your senses , know for certain That I am Prospero and that very duke Which was thrust forth of Milan , who most strangely Upon this shore where you were wracked , was landed , To be the lord on ' t .
I 'll set a bourn how far to be beloved .
What , art thou hurt ?
Mine ear must pluck it thence .
You shall not find , Though you be therein curious , the least cause For what you seem to fear . So the gods keep you And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends . We will here part .
Thou art very Trinculo indeed ! How camest thou to be the siege of this mooncalf ? Can he vent Trinculos ?
How goes the night , boy ?
For if thou path , thy native semblance on , Not Erebus itself were dim enough To hide thee from prevention .
May I with right and conscience make this claim ?
Silence ! One word more Shall make me chide thee , if not hate thee . What , An advocate for an imposter ? Hush , Thou think 'st there is no more such shapes as he , Having seen but him and Caliban . Foolish wench , To th ' most of men this is a Caliban And they to him are angels .
No , believe me , ' tis very cold . The wind is northerly .
O Jephthah , judge of Israel , what a treasure hadst thou !
So shall you feel the loss , but not the friend Which you weep for .
Philomel , with melody Sing in our sweet lullaby . Lulla , lulla , lullaby , lulla , lulla , lullaby . Never harm Nor spell nor charm Come our lovely lady nigh . So good night , with lullaby .
I cannot draw a cart , nor eat dried oats . If it be man 's work , I 'll do ' t .
And cross - gartered ?
Ay , and much better blood than his or thine .
Come on , sir knave , have done your foolishness , And tell me how thou hast disposed thy charge .
Shake it off . Come on . We 'll visit Caliban , my slave who never Yields us kind answer .
Sweet now , silence . Juno and Ceres whisper seriously . There 's something else to do . Hush and be mute , Or else our spell is marred .
No longer from head to foot than from hip to hip . She is spherical , like a globe . I could find out countries in her .
I pray thee now , deliver them like a man of this world .
Yea , but our valuation shall be such That every slight and false - derived cause , Yea , every idle , nice , and wanton reason , Shall to the King taste of this action ,
Be ' t so . Declare thine office .
' Twill not be seen in him there . There the men are as mad as he .
I 'll have no halves . I 'll bear it all myself .
Why , would not you ?
Marry , here 's grace and a codpiece -- that 's a wise man and a fool .
Why then methinks ' tis time to smile again . O world , how apt the poor are to be proud ! If one should be a prey , how much the better To fall before the lion than the wolf ! The clock upbraids me with the waste of time . Be not afraid , good youth , I will not have you . And yet when wit and youth is come to harvest , Your wife is like to reap a proper man . There lies your way , due west .
Not ?
Now , by my sword , I will kill all his coats . I 'll murder all his wardrobe , piece by piece , Until I meet the King .
I do believe ' twas he .
Look where the youngest wren of nine comes .
Have you forgot me ?
Nay , but hear you , Goodman Delver --
To Ireland , I. Our separated fortune Shall keep us both the safer . Where we are , There 's daggers in men 's smiles . The near in blood , The nearer bloody .
My dread lord , Your leave and favor to return to France , From whence though willingly I came to Denmark To show my duty in your coronation , Yet now , I must confess , that duty done , My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon .
Fear 'st thou that , Antonio ?
Madam !
Be a child o ' th ' time .
But are not some whole that we must make sick ?
You give him then advantage .
What 's the matter ?
Are not you Signor Benedick ?
I do remember in this shepherd boy Some lively touches of my daughter 's favor .
Portia , forgive me this enforced wrong , And in the hearing of these many friends I swear to thee , even by thine own fair eyes Wherein I see myself --
Knock at the gate ? O heavens ! Spake you not these words plain : " Sirrah , knock me here , rap me here , knock me well , and knock me soundly " ? And come you now with " knocking at the gate " ?
I cannot think my sister in the least Would fail her obligation . If , sir , perchance She have restrained the riots of your followers , ' Tis on such ground and to such wholesome end As clears her from all blame .
' Tis the god Hercules , whom Antony loved , Now leaves him .
Zounds , sir , you 're robbed ! For shame , put on your gown . Your heart is burst , you have lost half your soul . Even now , now , very now , an old black ram Is tupping your white ewe . Arise , arise , Awake the snorting citizens with the bell Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you . Arise , I say !
Not this hour , lieutenant , ' tis not yet ten o ' the clock . Our general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona -- who let us not therefore blame . He hath not yet made wanton the night with her , and she is sport for Jove .
Spoke like an officer ! Ha ' to thee , lad !
Some must go off . And yet , by these I see , So great a day as this is cheaply bought .
A mellifluous voice , as I am true knight .
Above my fortunes , yet my state is well . I am a gentleman .
To feed contention in a lingering act ; But let one spirit of the firstborn Cain Reign in all bosoms , that , each heart being set On bloody courses , the rude scene may end , And darkness be the burier of the dead .
Sir Topas !
Is it not strange , Canidius , That from Tarentum and Brundusium He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea And take in Toryne? --You have heard on ' t , sweet ?
Did you perceive how he laughed at his vice ?
You shall advise me in all for Cleopatra .
What ?
Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound 's mouth ; it catches .
When I wore it at your daughter 's marriage ?
We are enough yet living in the field To smother up the English in our throngs , If any order might be thought upon .
I saw the wound , I saw it with mine eyes -- God save the mark ! -- here on his manly breast . A piteous corse , a bloody piteous corse . Pale , pale as ashes , all bedaubed in blood , All in gore blood . I swooned at the sight .
What sayest thou , Mistress Quickly ? How doth thy husband ? I love him well ; he is an honest man .
Mean you his majesty ?
I mean , sir , for his weapon . But in the imputation laid on him by them , in his meed he 's unfellowed .
Four days will quickly steep themselves in night . Four nights will quickly dream away the time . And then the moon , like to a silver bow New bent in heaven , shall behold the night Of our solemnities .
Caesar 's . Therefore , O Antony , stay not by his side . Thy daemon -- that thy spirit which keeps thee -- is Noble , courageous , high , unmatchable Where Caesar 's is not . But near him thy angel Becomes afeard , as being o'erpowered . Therefore Make space enough between you .
Where shall I find you ?
What offense , sweet Beatrice ?
My master 's .
I see , lady , the gentleman is not in your books .
I have heard it said so . Oh , these men , these men ! Dost thou in conscience think -- tell me , Emilia -- That there be women do abuse their husbands In such gross kind ?
For me , the gold of France did not seduce , Although I did admit it as a motive The sooner to effect what I intended ; But God be thanked for prevention , Which I in sufferance heartily will rejoice , Beseeching God and you to pardon me .
Now my charms are all o'erthrown , And what strength I have 's mine own , Which is most faint . Now , ' tis true , I must be here confined by you , Or sent to Naples . Let me not , Since I have my dukedom got And pardoned the deceiver , dwell In this bare island by your spell , But release me from my bands With the help of your good hands . Gentle breath of yours my sails Must fill , or else my project fails , Which was to please . Now I want Spirits to enforce , art to enchant , And my ending is despair , Unless I be relieved by prayer , Which pierces so that it assaults Mercy itself and frees all faults . As you from crimes would pardoned be , Let your indulgence set me free .
Why then , rejoice therefore .
Now I must To the young man send humble treaties , dodge And palter in the shifts of lowness , who With half the bulk o ' th ' world played as I pleased , Making and marring fortunes . You did know How much you were my conqueror , and that My sword , made weak by my affection , would Obey it on all cause .
The king rises .
Brother John Bates , is not that the morning which breaks yonder ?
At your request ! Yes , nightingales answer daws !
Why , she hath a face of her own .
That 's the next to do .
Milk - livered man That bear 'st a cheek for blows , a head for wrongs -- Who hast not in thy brows an eye discerning Thine honor from thy suffering ; that not know 'st Fools do those villains pity who are punished Ere they have done their mischief . Where 's thy drum ? France spreads his banners in our noiseless land , With plumed helm thy state begins to threat , Whiles thou , a moral fool , sits still and cries , " Alack , why does he so ? "
Both by myself and many other friends . But he , his own affections ' counselor , Is to himself --I will not say how true , But to himself so secret and so close , So far from sounding and discovery , As is the bud bit with an envious worm , Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air , Or dedicate his beauty to the same . Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow . We would as willingly give cure as know .
All the world 's a stage , And all the men and women merely players . They have their exits and their entrances , And one man in his time plays many parts , His acts being seven ages . At first the infant , Mewling and puking in the nurse 's arms . Then the whining schoolboy with his satchel And shining morning face , creeping like snail Unwillingly to school . And then the lover , Sighing like furnace , with a woeful ballad Made to his mistress ' eyebrow . Then a soldier , Full of strange oaths and bearded like the pard , Jealous in honor , sudden and quick in quarrel ,
I have a good eye , uncle . I can see a church by daylight .
Why , Hal , ' tis my vocation , Hal . ' Tis no sin for a man to labor in his vocation .
And so she did .
Have you any levers to lift me up again being down ? ' Sblood , I 'll not bear mine own flesh so far afoot again for all the coin in thy father 's Exchequer . What a plague mean you to colt me thus ?
Ay , sir , the sergeant of the band ; he that brings any man to answer it that breaks his band ; one that thinks a man always going to bed and says " God give you good rest . "
I hold you but a subject of this war , Not as a brother .
Not on thy sole , but on thy soul , harsh Jew , Thou makest thy knife keen . But no metal can -- No , not the hangman 's axe -- bear half the keenness Of thy sharp envy . Can no prayers pierce thee ?
What means the fool , trow ?
Shall I forget myself to be myself ?
She took the ring of me . I 'll none of it .
O ' my word , captain , there 's none such here . What the good - year , do you think I would deny her ? For God 's sake , be quiet .
Say on , my Lord of Westmoreland , in peace , What doth concern your coming .
And stay , good Nurse . Behind the abbey wall Within this hour my man shall be with thee And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair , Which to the high top - gallant of my joy Must be my convoy in the secret night . Farewell . Be trusty , and I 'll quit thy pains . Farewell . Commend me to thy mistress .
Wherefore rejoice ? What conquest brings he home ? What tributaries follow him to Rome To grace in captive bonds his chariot wheels ? You blocks , you stones , you worse than senseless things , O you hard hearts , you cruel men of Rome , Knew you not Pompey ? Many a time and oft Have you climbed up to walls and battlements , To towers and windows , yea , to chimney tops , Your infants in your arms , and there have sat The livelong day with patient expectation To see great Pompey pass the streets of Rome . And when you saw his chariot but appear , Have you not made an universal shout That Tiber trembled underneath her banks To hear the replication of your sounds Made in her concave shores ? And do you now put on your best attire ? And do you now cull out a holiday ?
Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond , Thou but offend 'st thy lungs to speak so loud . Repair thy wit , good youth , or it will fall To cureless ruin . I stand here for law .
' Tis in grain , sir . ' Twill endure wind and weather .
To horse , you gallant princes , straight to horse . Do but behold yond poor and starved band , And your fair show shall suck away their souls , Leaving them but the shales and husks of men . There is not work enough for all our hands , Scarce blood enough in all their sickly veins To give each naked curtal axe a stain , That our French gallants shall today draw out And sheathe for lack of sport . Let us but blow on them , The vapor of our valor will o'erturn them . ' Tis positive against all exceptions , lords , That our superfluous lackeys and our peasants , Who in unnecessary action swarm About our squares of battle , were enough To purge this field of such a hilding foe , Though we upon this mountain 's basis by Took stand for idle speculation , But that our honors must not . What 's to say ? A very little little let us do , And all is done . Then let the trumpets sound The tucket sonance and the note to mount , For our approach shall so much dare the field That England shall couch down in fear and yield .
The nephew to old Norway , Fortinbras .
Come , let 's do so . For every minute is expectancy Of more arrivance .
I never spake with her in all my life .
Are you our daughter ?
I will be brief , for my short date of breath Is not so long as is a tedious tale . Romeo , there dead , was husband to that Juliet , And she , there dead , that Romeo 's faithful wife . I married them , and their stol'n marriage day Was Tybalt 's doomsday , whose untimely death Banished the new - made bridegroom from the city -- For whom , and not for Tybalt , Juliet pined . You , to remove that siege of grief from her , Betrothed and would have married her perforce To County Paris . Then comes she to me , And with wild looks bid me devise some mean To rid her from this second marriage , Or in my cell there would she kill herself . Then gave I her , so tutored by my art , A sleeping potion , which so took effect As I intended , for it wrought on her The form of death .
What , man , ' tis a night of revels ! The gallants desire it .
He does , he does . We 'll be revenged on him .
Did my father strike my gentleman For chiding of his fool ?
What ho , the Emperor 's guard ! The guard , what ho ! Come , your lord calls !
' Tis said they eat each other .
Then let them anatomize Regan . See what breeds about her heart . Is there any cause in nature that makes these hard hearts ? You , sir , I entertain you for one of my hundred . Only I do not like the fashion of your garments . You will say they are Persian attire , but let them be changed .
They stand and would have parley .
Put this in any liquid thing you will And drink it off ; and , if you had the strength Of twenty men , it would dispatch you straight .
Why , to keep one 's eyes of either side 's nose , that what a man cannot smell out , he may spy into .
God be with you . I have done . Please it your grace , on to the state affairs . I had rather to adopt a child than get it . -- Come hither , Moor . I here do give thee that with all my heart Which , but thou hast already , with all my heart I would keep from thee . For your sake , jewel , I am glad at soul I have no other child . For thy escape would teach me tyranny , To hang clogs on them . --I have done , my lord .
Attend the lords of France and Burgundy , Gloucester .
God 's bread ! It makes me mad . Day , night , hour , tide , time , work , play , Alone , in company , still my care hath been To have her matched . And having now provided A gentleman of noble parentage , Of fair demesnes , youthful , and nobly trained , Stuffed , as they say , with honorable parts , Proportioned as one 's thought would wish a man -- And then to have a wretched puling fool , A whining mammet , in her fortune 's tender , To answer " I 'll not wed , " " I cannot love , " " I am too young , " " I pray you , pardon me . " -- But , an you will not wed , I 'll pardon you . Graze where you will , you shall not house with me . Look to ' t , think on ' t , I do not use to jest . Thursday is near . Lay hand on heart , advise . An you be mine , I 'll give you to my friend . An you be not , hang , beg , starve , die in the streets , For , by my soul , I 'll ne'er acknowledge thee , Nor what is mine shall never do thee good . Trust to ' t , bethink you . I 'll not be forsworn .
No , my lord , with choler .
Be ruled by me . Forget to think of her .
Faith , I will live so long as I may , that 's the certain of it . And when I cannot live any longer , I will do as I may . That is my rest ; that is the rendezvous of it .
Why , then , tomorrow night , or Tuesday morn . On Tuesday noon , or night , or Wednesday morn . I prithee name the time , but let it not Exceed three days . In faith , he 's penitent , And yet his trespass , in our common reason ( Save that , they say , the wars must make example Out of her best ) is not , almost , a fault T ' incur a private check . When shall he come ? Tell me , Othello . I wonder in my soul What you would ask me that I should deny Or stand so mamm'ring on . What ? Michael Cassio That came a - wooing with you , and so many a time , When I have spoke of you dispraisingly , Hath ta'en your part , to have so much to do To bring him in ? Trust me , I could do much --
A gentleman .
Directly .
The English are embattled , you French peers .
Let him walk from whence he came , lest he catch cold on 's feet .
There 's a palm presages chastity , if nothing else .
No , I warrant your Grace you shall not entreat him to a second , that have so mightily persuaded him from a first .
The better that your Lordship please to ask .
With drinking healths to my niece . I 'll drink to her as long as there is a passage in my throat and drink in Illyria . He 's a coward and a coistrel that will not drink to my niece till his brains turn o ' th ' toe like a parish top . What , wench ! Castiliano vulgo , for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface .
What , stand 'st thou still and hear 'st such a calling ? Look to the guests within .
Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew , my master . The fiend is at mine elbow and tempts me , saying to me , " Gobbo , " " Launcelot Gobbo , " " Good Launcelot , " or " Good Gobbo , " or " Good Launcelot Gobbo " -- " use your legs , take the start , run away . " My conscience says , " No. Take heed , honest Launcelot . Take heed , honest Gobbo , " or as aforesaid , " Honest Launcelot Gobbo , do not run . Scorn running with thy heels . " Well , the most courageous fiend bids me pack . " Fia ! " says the fiend . " Away ! " says the fiend . " For the heavens , rouse up a brave mind , " says the fiend , " and run . " Well , my conscience , hanging about the neck of my heart , says very wisely to me , " My honest friend Launcelot , being an honest man 's son " -- or rather an honest woman 's son , for indeed my father did something smack , something grow to . He had a kind of taste . --Well , my conscience says , " Launcelot , budge not . " " Budge ! " says the fiend . " Budge not , " says my conscience . " Conscience , " say I , " you counsel well . " " Fiend , " say I , " you counsel well . " To be ruled by my conscience I should stay with the Jew my master , who , God bless the mark , is a kind of devil . And to run away from the Jew I should be ruled by the fiend , who , saving your reverence , is the devil himself . Certainly the Jew is the very devil incarnation . And in my conscience , my conscience is but a kind of hard conscience , to offer to counsel me to stay with the Jew . The fiend gives the more friendly counsel . I will run , fiend . My heels are at your command . I will run .
We will try it .
Here , master . What cheer ?
I have said .
I have no tongue , sir .
The Prince of Wales stepped forth before the King , And , nephew , challenged you to single fight .
Nay , then I 'll set those to you that can speak .
Madam , I will .
Here comes Bassanio , your most noble kinsman , Gratiano , and Lorenzo . Fare ye well . We leave you now with better company .
So the gods preserve thee !
Know you the hand ?
Madam !
Chastisement !
I know you well enough . You are Signor Antonio .
I do , and charge you in the Duke 's name to obey me .
True , my lord .
The gentleness of all the gods go with thee ! I have many enemies in Orsino 's court , Else would I very shortly see thee there . But , come what may , I do adore thee so That danger shall seem sport , and I will go .
Francis !
How now ! who is it ?
Cobweb .
He dares not come there for the candle . For you see , it is already in snuff .
Come , Gertrude , we 'll call up our wisest friends , And let them know both what we mean to do And what 's untimely done . So dreaded slander -- Whose whisper o'er the world 's diameter , As level as the cannon to his blank , Transports the poisoned shot -- may miss our name And hit the woundless air . Oh , come away ! My soul is full of discord and dismay .
How ? Unlawfully ?
A fool , a fool , I met a fool i ' th ' forest , A motley fool . A miserable world ! As I do live by food , I met a fool , Who laid him down and basked him in the sun And railed on Lady Fortune in good terms , In good set terms , and yet a motley fool . " Good morrow , fool , " quoth I. " No , sir , " quoth he , " Call me not ' fool ' till heaven hath sent me fortune . "
Our fatherless distress was left unmoaned . Your widow - dolor likewise be unwept !
Not yet , my cousin . We would be resolved , Before we hear him , of some things of weight That task our thoughts concerning us and France .
No , sir , there are more with him .
God and your arms be praised , victorious friends ! The day is ours ; the bloody dog is dead .
These be good humors indeed . Shall pack - horses And hollow pampered jades of Asia , which cannot go but thirty mile a day , Compare with Caesars and with cannibals , and Troyant Greeks ? Nay , rather damn them with King Cerberus , and let the welkin roar . Shall we fall foul for toys ?
O Lord , ay , good Master Snare .
O me ! This sight of death is as a bell , That warns my old age to a sepulcher .
Sir , his chests and treasure He has not with him .
Say , how grows it due ?
I have fled myself , and have instructed cowards To run and show their shoulders . Friends , begone . I have myself resolved upon a course Which has no need of you . Begone . My treasure 's in the harbor . Take it . Oh , I followed that I blush to look upon ! My very hairs do mutiny , for the white Reprove the brown for rashness , and they them For fear and doting . Friends , begone . You shall Have letters from me to some friends that will Sweep your way for you . Pray you , look not sad , Nor make replies of loathness . Take the hint Which my despair proclaims . Let that be left Which leaves itself . To the seaside straightway ! I will possess you of that ship and treasure . Leave me , I pray , a little . Pray you now , Nay , do so , for indeed I have lost command . Therefore I pray you . I 'll see you by and by .
Faith , stay here this night . They will surely do us no harm . You saw they speak us fair , give us gold . Methinks they are such a gentle nation that , but for the mountain of mad flesh
As much to you , good sister . Whither away ?
Indeed ? Ay , indeed ! Discern 'st thou aught in that ? Is he not honest ?
I called my love false love but what said he then ? Sing willow , willow , willow . If I court more women you 'll couch with more men -- So , get thee gone , good night . Mine eyes do itch , Doth that bode weeping ?
To give the world assurance of a man . This was your husband . Look you now , what follows . Here is your husband , like a mildewed ear Blasting his wholesome brother . Have you eyes ? Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed And batten on this moor ? Ha , have you eyes ? You cannot call it love , for at your age The heyday in the blood is tame , it 's humble , And waits upon the judgment . And what judgment Would step from this to this ? Sense sure you have , Else could you not have motion . But sure that sense Is apoplexed , for madness would not err , Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thralled , But it reserved some quantity of choice To serve in such a difference . What devil was ' t That thus hath cozened you at hoodman-blind ? Eyes without feeling , feeling without sight , Ears without hands or eyes , smelling sans all , Or but a sickly part of one true sense Could not so mope . O shame , where is thy blush ? Rebellious hell , If thou canst mutine in a matron 's bones , To flaming youth let virtue be as wax And melt in her own fire . Proclaim no shame When the compulsive ardor gives the charge , Since frost itself as actively doth burn , And reason panders will .
No abuse , Hal .
Hear me with patience .
Or else she could not have the wit to do this . The wiser , the waywarder . Make the doors upon a woman 's wit , and it will out at the casement . Shut that , and ' twill out at the keyhole . Stop that , ' twill fly with the smoke out at the chimney .
Double , double toil and trouble , Fire burn , and cauldron bubble .
Ay , now am I in Arden , the more fool I. When I was at home I was in a better place , but travelers must be content .
I must perforce . Farewell .
I said so , dear Katherine ; and I must not blush to affirm it .
More than to us Wait in your royal walks , your board , your bed !
Are you content to stay ?
Even so ?
Then let us both be sudden .
Oh !
Once more I come to know of thee , King Harry , If for thy ransom thou wilt now compound , Before thy most assured overthrow . For certainly thou art so near the gulf Thou needs must be englutted . Besides , in mercy , The constable desires thee thou wilt mind Thy followers of repentance , that their souls May make a peaceful and a sweet retire From off these fields where , wretches , their poor bodies Must lie and fester .
Sir , pardon me in what I have to say . Your plainness and your shortness please me well . Right true it is your son Lucentio here Doth love my daughter and she loveth him , Or both dissemble deeply their affections . And therefore , if you say no more than this , That like a father you will deal with him And pass my daughter a sufficient dower , The match is made , and all is done . Your son shall have my daughter with consent .
Why , now , blow wind , swell billow , and swim bark ! The storm is up and all is on the hazard .
Believe not so .
I 'll assure you , he uttered as prave words at the pridge as you shall see in a summer 's day . But it is very well ; what he has spoke to me , that is well , I warrant you , when time is serve .
This is a slave whose easy borrowed pride Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows . -- Out , varlet , from my sight !
I thought all for the best .
Go off , I discard you . Let me enjoy my private . Go off .
Nothing .
Peace , she sings .
If you are so fond over her iniquity , give her patent to offend , for if it touch not you it comes near nobody .
Till then , enough . Come , friends .
John Falstaff , knight . Every man must know that as oft as he has occasion to name himself , even like those that are kin to the King , for they never prick their finger but they say , " There 's some of the King 's blood spilt . " " How comes that ? " says he that takes upon him not to conceive . The answer is as ready as a borrower 's cap : " I am the King 's poor cousin , sir . "
I have done , i ' faith .
Here .
You will , chops ?
How yet resolves the governor of the town ? This is the latest parle we will admit . Therefore to our best mercy give yourselves Or , like to men proud of destruction , Defy us to our worst . For , as I am a soldier , A name that in my thoughts becomes me best , If I begin the batt'ry once again , I will not leave the half - achieved Harfleur Till in her ashes she lie buried . The gates of mercy shall be all shut up , And the fleshed soldier , rough and hard of heart , In liberty of bloody hand , shall range With conscience wide as hell , mowing like grass Your fresh fair virgins and your flow'ring infants . What is it then to me if impious war , Arrayed in flames like to the prince of fiends , Do with his smirched complexion all fell feats Enlinked to waste and desolation ? What is ' t to me , when you yourselves are cause , If your pure maidens fall into the hand Of hot and forcing violation ? What rein can hold licentious wickedness When down the hill he holds his fierce career ? We may as bootless spend our vain command Upon th ' enraged soldiers in their spoil As send precepts to the Leviathan To come ashore . Therefore , you men of Harfleur , Take pity of your town and of your people Whiles yet my soldiers are in my command , Whiles yet the cool and temperate wind of grace
Nay , I know not . Is it the king ?
Stay , ho ! And let us hear Mark Antony .
I am debating of my present store , And by the near guess of my memory I cannot instantly raise up the gross Of full three thousand ducats . What of that ? Tubal , a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe , Will furnish me . But soft ! How many months Do you desire ? Rest you fair , good signor . Your worship was the last man in our mouths .
Fie , wrangling Queen ! Whom every thing becomes -- to chide , to laugh , To weep , whose every passion fully strives To make itself , in thee , fair and admired ! No messenger but thine , and all alone Tonight we 'll wander through the streets and note The qualities of people . Come , my Queen , Last night you did desire it . -- Speak not to us .
Come , come . Have with you . Wot you what , my lord ? Today the lords you talked of are beheaded .
Nay , you might keep that check for it , till you met your wife 's wit going to your neighbor 's bed .
Hence , therefore , every leader to his charge , For on their answer will we set on them , And God befriend us as our cause is just .
Fie on him , Jezebel !
When everything seems double . Methinks I see these things with parted eye ,
Dost thou hear ? It is mine ancient .
Gentleman , Wear this for me -- one out of suits with fortune That could give more but that her hand lacks means . --Shall we go , coz ?
O , sir , the conceit is deeper than you think for . Take up my mistress ' gown to his master 's use ! O , fie , fie , fie !
I thank thee , fellow . Thou servest me , and I 'll love thee .
I 'll make it greater ere I part from thee , And all the budding honors on thy crest I 'll crop , to make a garland for my head .
O day untowardly turned !
Alas the heavy day , why do you weep ? Am I the motive of these tears , my lord ? If haply you my father do suspect An instrument of this your calling back , Lay not your blame on me . If you have lost him , Why , I have lost him too .
That now Sweno , the Norways ' king , craves composition . Nor would we deign him burial of his men Till he disbursed at Saint Colme 's Inch Ten thousand dollars to our general use .
Sirrah , come on . Go along with us .
I know it pleaseth neither of us well .
Things for the cook , sir , but I know not what .
You have not called me so , nor have you cause .
And I do think she 's thirty .
And be my vantage to exclaim on you .
Lucentio ! Oh , he hath murdered his master ! Lay hold on him , I charge you in the Duke 's name . O my son , my son ! Tell me , thou villain , where is my son Lucentio ?
In verity you did . --My bones bear witness , That since have felt the vigour of his rage .
My duty , madam , and most humble service .
Nay , that 's certain . But yet the pity of it , Iago ! O Iago , the pity of it , Iago !
My hair doth stand an end to hear her curses .
He did not call , he 's busy in the paper . Is there division ' twixt my lord and Cassio ?
I say amen , Gonzalo .
Thus twice before , and jump at this dead hour , With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch .
You cannot , sir , take from me any thing that I will more willingly part withal -- except my life , except my life , except my life .
Take him you on .
Young Fortinbras , with conquest come from Poland , To th ' ambassadors of England gives This warlike volley .
Benedick , didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato ?
Trail 'st thou the puissant pike ?
We will have vengeance for it , fear thou not . Then weep no more . I 'll send to one in Mantua , Where that same banished runagate doth live , Shall give him such an unaccustomed dram That he shall soon keep Tybalt company . And then , I hope , thou wilt be satisfied .
Was he a gentleman ?
Hark . The land bids me tread no more upon ' t . It is ashamed to bear me . Friends , come hither . I am so lated in the world that I Have lost my way forever . I have a ship Laden with gold . Take that , divide it . Fly And make your peace with Caesar .
And let us presently go sit in council How covert matters may be best disclosed , And open perils surest answered .
Why , man , I saw Bassanio under sail . With him is Gratiano gone along . And in their ship I am sure Lorenzo is not .
You do him injury to scorn his corse .
An thou hadst been set i ' th ' stocks for that question , thou'dst well deserved it .
God and his angels guard your sacred throne And make you long become it .
And may you prove , sir , master of your art .
I know him now . --Good God , betimes remove The means that makes us strangers !
After her , after her .
By your pardon . I will myself into the pulpit first , And show the reason of our Caesar 's death .
Daughter , remember what I told you . If the Prince do solicit you in that kind , you know your answer .
How now , who calls ?
By and by . When from the first to last betwixt us two Tears our recountments had most kindly bathed -- As how I came into that desert place -- In brief , he led me to the gentle duke , Who gave me fresh array and entertainment , Committing me unto my brother 's love , Who led me instantly unto his cave , There stripped himself , and here upon his arm The lioness had torn some flesh away , Which all this while had bled . And now he fainted , And cried in fainting upon Rosalind . Brief , I recovered him , bound up his wound , And after some small space , being strong at heart ,
God quit you in His mercy . Hear your sentence : You have conspired against our royal person , Joined with an enemy proclaimed , and from his coffers Received the golden earnest of our death , Wherein you would have sold your king to slaughter , His princes and his peers to servitude , His subjects to oppression and contempt , And his whole kingdom into desolation . Touching our person , seek we no revenge , But we our kingdom 's safety must so tender , Whose ruin you have sought , that to her laws We do deliver you . Get you therefore hence , Poor miserable wretches , to your death , The taste whereof God of His mercy give You patience to endure , and true repentance Of all your dear offences . --Bear them hence .
I looked for the chalky cliffs , but I could find no whiteness in them . But I guess it stood in her chin , by the salt rheum that ran between France and it .
Romeo , will you come to your father 's ? We 'll to dinner , thither .
What would you have ? Your gentleness shall force More than your force move us to gentleness .
Peaseblossom .
What is this That rises like the issue of a king , And wears upon his baby - brow the round And top of sovereignty ?
Mother , mother , mother !
I loved Ophelia . Forty thousand brothers Could not with all their quantity of love Make up my sum . What wilt thou do for her ?
Come , cousin , I am sure you love the gentleman .
Gentlemen --
Antony , The posture of your blows are yet unknown . But for your words , they rob the Hybla bees And leave them honeyless .
Is it for him you do envy me so ? Nay , then you jest , and now I well perceive You have but jested with me all this while . I prithee , sister Kate , untie my hands .
Go to , farewell . Put money enough in your purse .
Good faith , and when I met this holy man , The men you talk of came into my mind . What , go you toward the Tower ?
Do then , but I 'll not hear .
Anon , anon , sir . --Look down into the Pomgarnet , Ralph .
So may Your Highness , and yet punish , too .
Ay , what else ? and but I be deceived , Signior Baptista may remember me , Near twenty years ago , in Genoa , Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus .
We think not so , my lord .
Myself an enemy to all other joys , Which the most precious square of sense possesses . And find I am alone felicitate In your dear highness ' love .
But in the verity of extolment , I take him to be a soul of great article , and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as , to make true diction of him , his semblable is his mirror . And who else would trace him ? His umbrage , nothing more .
Withdraw , my lord . I 'll help you to a horse .
God 's bodykins , man , much better . Use every man after his desert , and who should 'scape whipping ? Use them after your own honor and dignity . The less they deserve , the more merit is in your bounty . Take them in .
I know not that , but such a handkerchief -- I am sure it was your wife 's --did I today See Cassio wipe his beard with .
Youth , you have done me much ungentleness To show the letter that I writ to you .
So oft as that shall be , So often shall the knot of us be called " The men that gave their country liberty . "
Where France ?
Oh , yet I do repent me of my fury , That I did kill them .
You must say " paragon . " A " paramour " is , God bless us , a thing of naught .
Ay , mistress , and Petruchio is the master , That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue .
Well , sir , in brief , the gown is not for me .
What , art thou afraid ?
Sir Thomas Lovell and Lord Marquess Dorset , ' Tis said , my liege , in Yorkshire are in arms . But this good comfort bring I to your Highness : The Breton navy is dispersed by tempest . Richmond , in Dorsetshire , sent out a boat Unto the shore to ask those on the banks If they were his assistants , yea or no -- Who answered him they came from Buckingham Upon his party . He , mistrusting them , Hoisted sail and made his course for Brittany .
Hostess , I forgive thee . Go make ready breakfast , love thy , husband , look to thy servants , cherish thy guests . Thou shalt find me tractable to any honest reason . Thou seest I am pacified still . Nay , prithee , be gone .
Heard you this , Gonzalo ?
What money is in my purse ?
That is , to watch her , as we watch these kites That bate and beat and will not be obedient . She ate no meat today , nor none shall eat . Last night she slept not , nor tonight she shall not . As with the meat , some undeserved fault I 'll find about the making of the bed , And here I 'll fling the pillow , there the bolster , This way the coverlet , another way the sheets . Ay , and amid this hurly I intend That all is done in reverend care of her . And , in conclusion , she shall watch all night , And if she chance to nod I 'll rail and brawl , And with the clamor keep her still awake . This is a way to kill a wife with kindness , And thus I 'll curb her mad and headstrong humor . He that knows better how to tame a shrew , Now let him speak ; ' tis charity to show .
Lepidus is high - colored .
Well then , confess and live .
Peace , sirrah !
A noble shalt thou have , and present pay , And liquor likewise will I give to thee , And friendship shall combine , and brotherhood . I 'll live by Nym , and Nym shall live by me . Is not this just ? For I shall subtler be Unto the camp , and profits will accrue . Give me thy hand .
He will do all in all as Hastings doth .
' Tis most true , And he beseeched me to entreat your Majesties To hear and see the matter .
Into what dangers would you lead me , Cassius , That you would have me seek into myself For that which is not in me ?
By this hand , I am . Good fool , some ink , paper , and light , and convey what I will set down to my lady . It shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing of letter did .
He shall spurn fate , scorn death , and bear His hopes ' bove wisdom , grace , and fear . And you all know , security Is mortals ' chiefest enemy .
It shall be done .
Foul weather ?
What , not a whore ?
Oh , pardon me , Signior Gremio , I would fain be doing .
These violent delights have violent ends And in their triumph die , like fire and powder , Which , as they kiss , consume . The sweetest honey Is loathsome in his own deliciousness And in the taste confounds the appetite . Therefore love moderately . Long love doth so . Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow .
Nay , I am sure it is , Volumnius . Thou seest the world , Volumnius , how it goes . Our enemies have beat us to the pit .
Who calls there ?
Do you intend to stay with me tonight ?
O you kind gods , Cure this great breach in his abused nature , Th ' untuned and jarring senses , O , wind up , Of this child - changed father !
If Fortune brag of two she loved and hated , One of them we behold .
Madam , she was a widow --
I hope so .
Anon , sir . Pray , stay a little , my lord .
' Twill be naught , But let it be . Bring me to Antony .
So will I , Signior Gremio . But a word , I pray . Though the nature of our quarrel yet never brooked parle , know now upon advice , it toucheth us both , that we may yet again have access to our fair mistress and be happy rivals in Bianca 's love , to labor and effect one thing specially .
So dear I loved the man that I must weep . I took him for the plainest harmless creature That breathed upon this earth a Christian ; Made him my book , wherein my soul recorded The history of all her secret thoughts . So smooth he daubed his vice with show of virtue That , his apparent open guilt omitted -- I mean his conversation with Shore 's wife -- He lived from all attainder of suspects .
What heard you him say else ?
See where he is , who 's with him , what he does . I did not send you . If you find him sad , Say I am dancing . If in mirth , report That I am sudden sick . Quick , and return .
Haply in private .
I do not know dat .
Zounds , who is there ?
Whence is that knocking ? How is ' t with me when every noise appals me ? What hands are here ? Ha ! They pluck out mine eyes . Will all great Neptune 's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand ? No , this my hand will rather The multitudinous seas incarnadine , Making the green one red .
With all my heart , sir .
And mine , with my heart in ' t . And now farewell Till half an hour hence .
In Kent , my liege , the Guilfords are in arms , And every hour more competitors Flock to the rebels , and their power grows strong .
I know by that same eye there 's some good news . What , says the married woman you may go ? Would she had never given you leave to come ! Let her not say ' tis I that keep you here . I have no power upon you . Hers you are .
Denmark 's a prison .
For the Dauphin , I stand here for him . What to him from England ?
And you , sir . I have been with your father and given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan his duchess will be here with him this night .
Post back with speed , and tell him what hath chanced . Here is a mourning Rome , a dangerous Rome , No Rome of safety for Octavius yet . Hie hence , and tell him so . --Yet , stay awhile . Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse Into the marketplace . There shall I try , In my oration , how the people take The cruel issue of these bloody men . According to the which , thou shalt discourse To young Octavius of the state of things . Lend me your hand .
Zounds , will they not rob us ?
So is my horse , Octavius , and for that I do appoint him store of provender . It is a creature that I teach to fight , To wind , to stop , to run directly on , His corporal motion governed by my spirit , And , in some taste , is Lepidus but so . He must be taught and trained and bid go forth , A barren - spirited fellow , one that feeds On objects , arts , and imitations , Which , out of use and staled by other men , Begin his fashion . Do not talk of him But as a property . And now , Octavius , Listen great things . Brutus and Cassius Are levying powers . We must straight make head . Therefore let our alliance be combined , Our best friends made , our means stretched .
I think it well , my lord .
Well , sir .
Go tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return . Simple , plain Clarence , I do love thee so That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven , If heaven will take the present at our hands . But who comes here ? The new - delivered Hastings ?
And so am I for Rosalind .
Not so sick , my lord , As she is troubled with thick - coming fancies That keep her from her rest .
Were it good , think you ?
O , do not swear ! Hold little faith , though thou hast too much fear .
Begone , good ancient . This will grow to a brawl anon .
Cassius , be content . Speak your griefs softly . I do know you well . Before the eyes of both our armies here , Which should perceive nothing but love from us , Let us not wrangle . Bid them move away . Then in my tent , Cassius , enlarge your griefs , And I will give you audience .
The deep of night is crept upon our talk , And nature must obey necessity , Which we will niggard with a little rest . There is no more to say ?
Now , go thy ways , thou hast tamed a curst shrew .
Go , one , and call the Jew into the court .
He threw his wounded arm and kissed his lips , And so , espoused to death , with blood he sealed A testament of noble - ending love . The pretty and sweet manner of it forced Those waters from me which I would have stopped , But I had not so much of man in me , And all my mother came into mine eyes And gave me up to tears .
This lanthorn doth the horned moon present --
I pray thee , moralize them .
When beggars die there are no comets seen . The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes .
Sowter will cry upon ' t for all this , though it be as rank as a fox .
Benedicite . What early tongue so sweet saluteth me ? Young son , it argues a distempered head So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed . Care keeps his watch in every old man 's eye , And where care lodges , sleep will never lie . But where unbruised youth with unstuffed brain Doth couch his limbs , there golden sleep doth reign . Therefore thy earliness doth me assure Thou art uproused by some distemperature . Or if not so , then here I hit it right : Our Romeo hath not been in bed tonight .
Come hither , man . I see that thou art poor . Hold , there is forty ducats . Let me have A dram of poison , such soon - speeding gear As will disperse itself through all the veins That the life - weary taker may fall dead , And that the trunk may be discharged of breath As violently as hasty powder fired Doth hurry from the fatal cannon 's womb .
Made you my guardians , my depositaries , But kept a reservation to be followed With such a number . What , must I come to you With five and twenty , Regan ? Said you so ?
Which of you have done this ?
How ? Turn thy back and run ?
My children too ?
Ay . Is ' t not strange ?
Peace , ho ! Caesar speaks .
Ay , madam .
How doth the lady ?
For now a time is come to mock at form . Harry the Fifth is crowned . Up , vanity , Down , royal state , all you sage counsillors , hence , And to the English court assemble now , From every region , apes of idleness . Now , neighbor confines , purge you of your scum . Have you a ruffian that will swear , drink , dance , Revel the night , rob , murder , and commit The oldest sins the newest kind of ways ? Be happy , he will trouble you no more . England shall double gild his treble guilt . England shall give him office , honor , might , For the fifth Harry from curbed license plucks The muzzle of restraint , and the wild dog Shall flesh his tooth on every innocent . O my poor kingdom , sick with civil blows ! When that my care could not withhold thy riots , What wilt thou do when riot is thy care ? O , thou wilt be a wilderness again , Peopled with wolves , thy old inhabitants .
Faith , I 'll bear no base mind .
In such a night Did Thisbe fearfully o'ertrip the dew And saw the lion 's shadow ere himself And ran dismayed away .
Marry , well remembered . I reasoned with a Frenchman yesterday , Who told me , in the narrow seas that part The French and English , there miscarried A vessel of our country richly fraught . I thought upon Antonio when he told me , And wished in silence that it were not his .
I have sent to bid Cassio come speak with you .
But these cannot I command to any utterance of harmony . I have not the skill .
Poor naked wretches , whereso'er you are , That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm , How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides , Your looped and windowed raggedness , defend you From seasons such as these ? Oh , I have ta'en Too little care of this ! Take physic , pomp . Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel , That thou mayst shake the superflux to them And show the heavens more just .
Come on , sir . Here 's the place . Stand still . How fearful And dizzy ' tis to cast one 's eyes so low ! The crows and choughs that wing the midway air Show scarce so gross as beetles . Halfway down Hangs one that gathers samphire --dreadful trade ! Methinks he seems no bigger than his head . The fishermen that walk upon the beach Appear like mice . And yon tall anchoring bark ,
They say , one Taurus .
Alack , my lord , that fault is none of yours . He should , for that , commit your godfathers . O , belike his majesty hath some intent That you shall be new christened in the Tower . But what 's the matter , Clarence ? May I know ?
Oh , ' twas a din to fright a monster 's ear , To make an earthquake ! Sure , it was the roar Of a whole herd of lions .
Pronounce it for me , sir , to all our friends , For my heart speaks they are welcome .
No , noble mistress . ' Tis fresh morning with me When you are by at night . I do beseech you -- Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers -- What is your name ?
' Tis some odd humor pricks him to this fashion , Yet oftentimes he goes but mean - appareled .
But that the poor monster 's in drink . An abominable monster !
Well , sir , to do you courtesy , This will I do , and this I will advise you . First tell me , have you ever been at Pisa ?
Not Cassio killed ! Then murder 's out of tune , And sweet revenge grows harsh .
Both stile and gate , horseway and footpath . Poor Tom hath been scared out of his good wits . Bless thee , goodman 's son , from the foul fiend ! Five fiends have been in poor Tom at once : of lust , as Obidicut ; Hobbididence , prince of dumbness ; Mahu , of stealing ; Modo , of murder ; Flibbertigibbet , of mopping and mowing , who since possesses chambermaids and waiting - women . So bless thee , master .
Oh , fly to Scotland Till that the nobles and the armed commons Have of their puissance made a little taste .
You are my true and honorable wife , As dear to me as are the ruddy drops That visit my sad heart .
He had none . His flight was madness . When our actions do not , Our fears do make us traitors .
Ned , prithee , come out of that fat room and lend me thy hand to laugh a little .
Sweet sir , sit . I 'll be with you anon . Most sweet sir , sit . Master page , good master page , sit . Proface . What you want in meat , we 'll have in drink , but you must bear . The heart 's all .
Enobarbus ?
What is the matter , ho ? Who is ' t that cried ?
Who 's there ?
You are welcome , sir .
Out of this wood do not desire to go . Thou shalt remain here whether thou wilt or no . I am a spirit of no common rate . The summer still doth tend upon my state . And I do love thee . Therefore go with me . I 'll give thee fairies to attend on thee . And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep , And sing while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep . And I will purge thy mortal grossness so That thou shalt like an airy spirit go . -- Peaseblossom , Cobweb , Moth , and Mustardseed !
" And some have greatness thrust upon them . "
By ' r lady , I think it be so .
Alas , and woe !
Well , is it , is it ?
How say you now ? Is it not past two o'clock ? And here much Orlando .
Who , queasy with his insolence already , Will their good thoughts call from him .
Go , I discharge thee of thy prisoner , and I thank thee .
I see this hath a little dashed your spirits .
Marry , sir , thus : those precepts cannot be served . And again , sir , shall we sow the hade land with wheat ?
Angels and ministers of grace defend us ! Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damned , Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell , Be thy intents wicked or charitable , Thou comest in such a questionable shape That I will speak to thee . I 'll call thee " Hamlet , " " King , " " Father , " " royal Dane . " O , answer me ! Let me not burst in ignorance , but tell Why thy canonized bones , hearsed in death , Have burst their cerements ; why the sepulcher ,
If he will not stand when he is bidden , he is none of the Prince 's subjects .
I never gave him any . It pleased the king his master very late To strike at me upon his misconstruction When he , conjunct and flattering his displeasure , Tripped me behind ; being down , insulted , railed , And put upon him such a deal of man That worthied him , got praises of the king For him attempting who was self - subdued . And in the fleshment of this dread exploit Drew on me here again .
Bloody and guilty , guiltily awake , And in a bloody battle end thy days . Think on Lord Hastings . Despair and die ! Quiet , untroubled soul , awake , awake . Arm , fight , and conquer for fair England 's sake .
The king and prince at prayers . Let 's assist them , for our case is as theirs .
Come , Kate , I 'll have your song too .
Gentle , hear me . None about Caesar trust but Proculeius .
I shall hereafter , my thrice gracious lord , Be more myself .
Give me a torch . I am not for this ambling . Being but heavy , I will bear the light .
Why , you whoreson round man , what 's the matter ?
Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side ?
He hath , my lord , of late made many tenders Of his affection to me .
And have you mercy too ! I never did Offend you in my life , never loved Cassio But with such general warranty of heaven As I might love . I never gave him token .
And let us swear our resolution .
Yon light is not daylight , I know it , I. It is some meteor that the sun exhales To be to thee this night a torchbearer , And light thee on thy way to Mantua . Therefore stay yet . Thou need 'st not to be gone .
Well , well , put up your sword .
Your wife , sir knave ? Go , get you from the door .
Well , my good lord . He heard of your Grace 's coming to town . There 's a letter for you .
For there is none of you so mean and base That hath not noble luster in your eyes . I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips , Straining upon the start . The game 's afoot . Follow your spirit , and upon this charge Cry " God for Harry , England , and Saint George ! "
It is the best horse of Europe .
Do you hear , you minion ? You 'll let us in , I hope ?
No , he 's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son , for he 's a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman before him .
So said , so done , is well . Hortensio , have you told him all her faults ?
Indeed , he hath an excellent good name .
What wilt thou do ?
Drowned ? Oh , where ?
Ah , my poor princes ! Ah , my tender babes , My unblown flowers , new - appearing sweets , If yet your gentle souls fly in the air And be not fixed in doom perpetual , Hover about me with your airy wings And hear your mother 's lamentation .
But little . I am armed and well prepared . -- Give me your hand , Bassanio . Fare you well .
My father loved Sir Rowland as his soul , And all the world was of my father 's mind . Had I before known this young man his son , I should have given him tears unto entreaties Ere he should thus have ventured .
I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose --
Sir , my good friend , I 'll change that name with you . And what make you from Wittenberg , Horatio? -- Marcellus !
I say gudday , Captain Fluellen .
Tell me where is fancy bred . Or in the heart or in the head ? How begot , how nourished ?
Why , it cannot choose but be a noble plot . And then the power of Scotland and of York To join with Mortimer , ha ?
None of these rogues and cowards But Ajax is their fool .
Marry , that " marry " is the very theme I came to talk of . Tell me , daughter Juliet , How stands your disposition to be married ?
Ancient , conduct them . You best know the place .
I do , and surely It is a sleepy language , and thou speak 'st Out of thy sleep . What is it thou didst say ? This is a strange repose , to be asleep With eyes wide open , standing , speaking , moving , And yet so fast asleep .
These things seem small and undistinguishable , Like far-off mountains turned into clouds .
From Sicyon , how , the news ? Speak there .
How comes it , Michael , you are thus forgot ?
Doubt not , my lord . I 'll play the orator As if the golden fee for which I plead Were for myself . And so , my lord , adieu .
Good Margaret , run thee to the parlor . There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice Proposing with the Prince and Claudio . Whisper her ear and tell her I and Ursula Walk in the orchard , and our whole discourse Is all of her . Say that thou overheardst us , And bid her steal into the pleached bower Where honeysuckles ripened by the sun Forbid the sun to enter , like favorites Made proud by princes , that advance their pride Against that power that bred it . There will she hide her To listen our propose . This is thy office . Bear thee well in it and leave us alone .
Here , here .
" See " ' t shalt thou never . --Fellows , hold the chair . -- Upon these eyes of thine I 'll set my foot .
' Tis better , sir , to be brief than tedious . --Let him see our commission , and talk no more .
Why , is not this better now than groaning for love ? Now art thou sociable . Now art thou Romeo . Now art thou what thou art -- by art as well as by nature , for this driveling love is like a great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole .
Lord of the wide world and wild wat'ry seas , Endued with intellectual sense and souls , Of more preeminence than fish and fowls , Are masters to their females , and their lords . Then let your will attend on their accords .
My matter hath no voice , lady , but to your own most pregnant and vouchsafed ear .
Speak .
Good morrow , masters . Put your torches out . The wolves have preyed , and look , the gentle day , Before the wheels of Phoebus , round about Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey . Thanks to you all , and leave us . Fare you well .
Turning th ' accomplishment of many years Into an hour - glass; for the which supply , Admit me chorus to this history ; Who , prologue - like , your humble patience pray Gently to hear , kindly to judge our play .
As I ! Fie upon thee !
And I 'll sing it . Thus it goes : If it do come to pass That any man turn ass , Leaving his wealth and ease A stubborn will to please , Ducdame , ducdame , ducdame . Here shall he see Gross fools as he , An if he will come to me .
Why , I pray you , is not " pig " great ? The pig , or the great , or the mighty , or the huge , or the magnanimous are all one reckonings , save the phrase is a little variations .
It did , it did . Alas the day , it did .
Is ' t possible , friend Litio , that mistress Bianca Doth fancy any other but Lucentio ? I tell you , sir , she bears me fair in hand .
My dearest love , Duncan comes here tonight .
Give us kind keepers , heavens ! What were these ?
The exhalations whizzing in the air Give so much light that I may read by them . " Brutus , thou sleep'st . Awake , and see thyself . Shall Rome , etc. Speak , strike , redress ! " " Brutus , thou sleep'st . Awake . " Such instigations have been often dropped Where I have took them up . -- " Shall Rome , etc. " Thus must I piece it out : " Shall Rome stand under one man 's awe ? " What , Rome ? My ancestors did from the streets of Rome The Tarquin drive when he was called a king . -- " Speak , strike , redress ! " Am I entreated To speak and strike ? O Rome , I make thee promise , If the redress will follow , thou receivest Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus !
Why , this is an arrant counterfeit rascal . I remember him now , a bawd , a cutpurse .
My lord , we will do so .
Are you full of them ?
I am one , my liege , Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world Have so incensed that I am reckless what I do to spite the world .
Ah , that thou wouldst as soon afford a grave As thou canst yield a melancholy seat , Then would I hide my bones , not rest them here . O , who hath any cause to mourn but we ?
Anon he finds him Striking too short at Greeks . His antique sword , Rebellious to his arm , lies where it falls , Repugnant to command . Unequal matched , Pyrrhus at Priam drives , in rage strikes wide , But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword The unnerved father falls . Then senseless Ilium , Seeming to feel this blow , with flaming top Stoops to his base , and with a hideous crash Takes prisoner Pyrrhus ' ear . For , lo , his sword , Which was declining on the milky head Of reverend Priam , seemed i ' th ' air to stick . So as a painted tyrant Pyrrhus stood ,
And , for that dowry , I 'll assure her of Her widowhood , be it that she survive me , In all my lands and leases whatsoever . Let specialties be therefore drawn between us , That covenants may be kept on either hand .
Oh , what a rash and bloody deed is this !
Though justice be thy plea , consider this -- That in the course of justice none of us Should see salvation . We do pray for mercy , And that same prayer doth teach us all to render The deeds of mercy . I have spoke thus much To mitigate the justice of thy plea , Which if thou follow , this strict court of Venice Must needs give sentence ' gainst the merchant there .
When you are gentle , you shall have one too , And not till then .
I heard him say , Brutus and Cassius Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome .
Ay me ! I see the ruin of my house . The tiger now hath seized the gentle hind . Insulting tyranny begins to jut Upon the innocent and aweless throne . Welcome , destruction , blood , and massacre . I see , as in a map , the end of all .
Ay , and much more ; but I was born so high . Our aerie buildeth in the cedar 's top , And dallies with the wind and scorns the sun .
Marry , to say she came to seek you there . You shall never take her without her answer unless you take her without her tongue . Oh , that woman that cannot make her fault her husband 's occasion , let her never nurse her child herself , for she will breed it like a fool .
Saw you my lord ?
Marry , sir , be better employed , and be naught awhile .
How bloodily the sun begins to peer Above yon busky hill . The day looks pale At his distemp'rature .
No , to Whitefriars . There attend my coming .
Marry , sir , besides myself I am due to a woman , one that claims me , one that haunts me , one that will have me .
Two hundred ducats .
I fear no uncles dead .
' Tis your noblest course . Wisdom and fortune combating together , If that the former dare but what it can , No chance may shake it . Give me grace to lay My duty on your hand .
I 'll wait upon your Lordship
What call you the carriages ?
My sister may receive it much more worse To have her gentleman abused , assaulted For following her affairs . --Put in his legs .
Yes , sir , I have indeed .
Never , my lord .
Nay , he struck so plainly I could too well feel his blows , and withal so doubtfully that I could scarce understand them .
No , no , no ; not so . I did not think thou wast within hearing .
What fire is in mine ears ? Can this be true ? Stand I condemned for pride and scorn so much ? Contempt , farewell , and maiden pride , adieu ! No glory lives behind the back of such . And Benedick , love on ; I will requite thee , Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand . If thou dost love , my kindness shall incite thee To bind our loves up in a holy band . For others say thou dost deserve , and I Believe it better than reportingly .
I am called Dercetus . Mark Antony I served , who best was worthy Best to be served . Whilst he stood up and spoke , He was my master , and I wore my life To spend upon his haters . If thou please To take me to thee , as I was to him I 'll be to Caesar . If thou pleasest not , I yield thee up my life .
Do you amend it then . It lies in you . Why should Titania cross her Oberon ? I do but beg a little changeling boy , To be my henchman .
I assure you , there is very excellent services committed at the bridge .
He did , my lord , four days ere I set forth , And , at the time of my departure thence , He was much feared by his physicians .
Montez a cheval ! My horse , varlet ! Lackey ! Ha !
You have often Begun to tell me what I am , but stopped And left me to a bootless inquisition , Concluding , " Stay . Not yet . "
Ay , my lord .
" By no means " what ?
Himself . What sayst thou to him ?
Sure , I think so , And therefore certainly it were not good She knew his love , lest she make sport at it .
Bounteous madam , Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio , He 's never anything but your true servant .
Do I entice you ? Do I speak you fair ? Or rather , do I not in plainest truth Tell you I do not , nor I cannot , love you ?
A plague upon this howling ! They are louder than the weather or our office .
He has a little galled me , I confess . And , as the jest did glance away from me , ' Tis ten to one it maimed you two outright .
What a strange drowsiness possesses them !
Under your pardon . You must note beside , That we have tried the utmost of our friends , Our legions are brim - full , our cause is ripe . The enemy increaseth every day . We , at the height , are ready to decline . There is a tide in the affairs of men , Which , taken at the flood , leads on to fortune ; Omitted , all the voyage of their life Is bound in shallows and in miseries . On such a full sea are we now afloat , And we must take the current when it serves Or lose our ventures .
I was contracted to them both . All three Now marry in an instant .
Faith , I 'll home tomorrow , Sir Toby . Your niece will not be seen . Or if she be , it 's four to one she 'll none of me . The count himself here hard by woos her .
Pardon , old father , my mistaking eyes That have been so bedazzled with the sun That everything I look on seemeth green . Now I perceive thou art a reverend father . Pardon , I pray thee , for my mad mistaking .
Good even , Casca . Brought you Caesar home ? Why are you breathless ? And why stare you so ?
Ere I learn love , I 'll practice to obey .
O ill - dispersing wind of misery ! O my accursed womb , the bed of death ! A cockatrice hast thou hatched to the world , Whose unavoided eye is murderous .
Your heart 's desires be with you .
Ay , tell me that , and unyoke .
So will I grow , so live , so die , my lord , Ere I will yield my virgin patent up Unto his lordship , whose unwished yoke My soul consents not to give sovereignty .
What , I , my lord ? No , not for all the world .
Not tonight , good Iago . I have very poor and unhappy brains for drinking . I could well wish courtesy would invent some other custom of entertainment .
My lord , I did , But answer made it none . Yet once methought It lifted up its head and did address Itself to motion , like as it would speak . But even then the morning cock crew loud , And at the sound it shrunk in haste away And vanished from our sight .
Why , all our ranks are broke .
Lest it see more , prevent it . --Out , vile jelly !
And she goes down at twelve .
Double , double toil and trouble , Fire burn and cauldron bubble .
And she is exceeding wise .
You must excuse me , Master Robert Shallow .
Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it .
What is her mother ?
How if the kiss be denied ?
And , like a neutral to his will and matter , Did nothing . But as we often see against some storm A silence in the heavens , the rack stand still , The bold winds speechless , and the orb below As hush as death , anon the dreadful thunder Doth rend the region . So , after Pyrrhus ' pause , Aroused vengeance sets him new a - work . And never did the Cyclops ' hammers fall On Mars 's armor forged for proof eterne With less remorse than Pyrrhus ' bleeding sword Now falls on Priam . Out , out , thou strumpet Fortune ! All you gods In general synod take away her power , Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel , And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven , As low as to the fiends !
If for the sake of merit thou wilt hear me , Rise from thy stool .
Nay , pray you , sir .
No farther than the Tower , and , as I guess , Upon the like devotion as yourselves , To gratulate the gentle princes there .
Upon my power I may dismiss this court , Unless Bellario , a learned doctor , Whom I have sent for to determine this , Come here today .
The Sheriff and all the watch are at the door . They are come to search the house . Shall I let them in ?
Hath she made her affection known to Benedick ?
How fares our cousin , noble Lord of York ?
He had his part of it . Let him pay .
Not I , unless the breath of heartsick groans , Mistlike , infold me from the search of eyes .
If love be rough with you , be rough with love . Prick love for pricking , and you beat love down . -- Give me a case to put my visage in ! A visor for a visor . --What care I What curious eye doth cote deformities ? Here are the beetle brows shall blush for me .
Spoke like a tall man that respects thy reputation . Come , shall we fall to work ?
This servitude makes you to keep unwed .
Then there is no true lover in the forest , else sighing every minute and groaning every hour would detect the lazy foot of time as well as a clock .
Why did you leave me here alone , my lords ?
What am I , sir ! Nay , what are you , sir ? O immortal gods ! O fine villain ! A silken doublet , a velvet hose , a scarlet cloak , and a copatain hat ! Oh , I am undone , I am undone ! While I play the good husband at home , my son and my servant spend all at the university .
I know not neither , I found it in my chamber . I like the work well . Ere it be demanded , As like enough it will , I would have it copied . Take it and do ' t , and leave me for this time .
An if it do , take it for thy labor . An if it make twenty , take them all . I 'll answer the coinage . Bid my lieutenant Peto meet me at town 's end .
Winter 's not gone yet , if the wild geese fly that way . Fathers that wear rags Do make their children blind . But fathers that bear bags Shall see their children kind . Fortune , that arrant whore , Ne'er turns the key to th ' poor . But for all this thou shalt have as many dolors for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year .
Sir , go you in , and , madam , go with him ; And go , Sir Paris . Every one prepare To follow this fair corse unto her grave . The heavens do lour upon you for some ill . Move them no more by crossing their high will .
He did receive his letters and is coming . And bid me say to you by word of mouth -- O Caesar ! --
Nay , nay , Octavia , not only that -- That were excusable , that and thousands more Of semblable import -- but he hath waged New wars ' gainst Pompey ; made his will , and read it To public ear ; Spoke scantly of me ; when perforce he could not But pay me terms of honor , cold and sickly He vented them , most narrow measure lent me . When the best hint was given him , he not took ' t , Or did it from his teeth .
Your answer to that ?
Well moused , Lion !
He means in flesh .
Write down that they hope they serve God ; and write God first , for God defend but God should go before such villains ! --Masters , it is proved already that you are little better than false knaves , and it will go near to be thought so shortly . How answer you for yourselves ?
I say , O Caesar , Antony is dead .
That is the voice , Or I am much deceived , of Portia .
I long To hear the story of your life , which must Take the ear strangely .
I love you with so much of my heart that none is left to protest .
Up in the air , crowned with the golden sun , Saw his heroical seed and smiled to see him Mangle the work of nature and deface The patterns that by God and by French fathers Had twenty years been made . This is a stem Of that victorious stock , and let us fear The native mightiness and fate of him .
I know thee well -- a serviceable villain , As duteous to the vices of thy mistress As badness would desire .
If that the Turkish fleet Be not ensheltered and embayed , they are drowned . It is impossible they bear it out .
Pray thee , peace . -- Pay her the debt you owe her , and unpay the villany you have done her . The one you may do with sterling money , and the other with current repentance .
And Shylock , for his own part , knew the bird was fledged , and then it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam .
Yea , noise ? Then I 'll be brief . O happy dagger , This is thy sheath . There rust and let me die .
Good morrow , cousin .
How now , Ophelia ?
I cannot read them now . -- O gentlemen , the time of life is short ; To spend that shortness basely were too long If life did ride upon a dial 's point , Still ending at the arrival of an hour . An if we live , we live to tread on kings ; If die , brave death , when princes die with us . Now , for our consciences , the arms are fair When the intent of bearing them is just .
Go to , go to . Better thou Hadst not been born than not t ' have pleased me better .
I do not know the French for " fer , " and " ferret , " and " firk . "
Do you set down your name in the scroll of youth , that are written down old with all the characters of age ? Have you not a moist eye , a dry hand , a yellow cheek , a white beard ,
Out , dog ! Out , cur ! Thou drivest me past the bounds Of maiden 's patience . Hast thou slain him then ? Henceforth be never numbered among men ! Oh , once tell true , tell true even for my sake -- Durst thou have looked upon him being awake , And hast thou killed him sleeping ? O brave touch ! Could not a worm , an adder , do so much ? An adder did it , for with doubler tongue Than thine , thou serpent , never adder stung .
And I as I love Hastings with my heart .
O good Antonio , forgive me your trouble .
Thomas the earl of Surrey and himself , Much about cockshut time , from troop to troop Went through the army cheering up the soldiers .
And I was going to your lodging , Cassio . What , keep a week away ? Seven days and nights ? Eight score eight hours ? And lovers ' absent hours More tedious than the dial eightscore times ! Oh weary reckoning !
Know then , my name is Douglas , And I do haunt thee in the battle thus Because some tell me that thou art a king .
Hamlet ! Lord Hamlet !
And but one word with one of us ? Couple it with something . Make it a word and a blow .
Then go with me to make the matter good . This , by the way , I let you understand : My father is here looked for every day To pass assurance of a dower in marriage ' Twixt me and one Baptista 's daughter here . In all these circumstances I 'll instruct you . Go with me to clothe you as becomes you .
The labor we delight in physics pain . This is the door .
I do not desire you to please me . I do desire you to sing . Come , more , another stanzo . Call you 'em " stanzos " ?
Disorder , that hath spoiled us , friend us now . Let us on heaps go offer up our lives .
My sword is drawn .
This becomes the great ! Sorry am I his numbers are so few , His soldiers sick and famished in their march , For , I am sure , when he shall see our army He 'll drop his heart into the sink of fear And for achievement offer us his ransom .
Fare you well , Falstaff . I , in my condition , Shall better speak of you than you deserve .
I 'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes , And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts .
Tell me not , Friar , that thou hear 'st of this , Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it . If in thy wisdom thou canst give no help , Do thou but call my resolution wise , And with this knife I 'll help it presently . God joined my heart and Romeo 's , thou our hands . And ere this hand , by thee to Romeo sealed , Shall be the label to another deed , Or my true heart with treacherous revolt Turn to another , this shall slay them both . Therefore out of thy long - experienced time , Give me some present counsel , or , behold , ' Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife Shall play the umpire , arbitrating that Which the commission of thy years and art Could to no issue of true honor bring . Be not so long to speak . I long to die If what thou speak 'st speak not of remedy .
I will return again into the house and desire some conduct of the lady . I am no fighter . I have heard of some kind of men that put quarrels purposely on others , to taste their valor . Belike this is a man of that quirk .
Come , knock and enter . And no sooner in But every man betake him to his legs .
The Duke of Lancaster and Westmoreland ; Against the Welsh , himself and Harry Monmouth ; But who is substituted against the French I have no certain notice .
There 's one did laugh in 's sleep , and one cried . " Murder ! " That they did wake each other . I stood and heard them . But they did say their prayers , and addressed them Again to sleep .
Fly further off , my lord , fly further off . Mark Antony is in your tents , my lord . Fly , therefore , noble Cassius , fly far off .
' Tis very true , Lord Bardolph ; for indeed It was young Hotspur 's cause at Shrewsbury .
That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a parrot , and yet the son of a woman ! His industry is upstairs and downstairs , his eloquence the parcel of a reckoning . I am not yet of Percy 's mind , the Hotspur of the north , he that kills me some six or seven dozen of Scots at a breakfast , washes his hands , and says to his wife " Fie upon this quiet life ! I want work . " " O my sweet Harry , " says she , " how many hast thou killed today ? " " Give my roan horse a drench , " says he , and answers " Some fourteen , " an hour after . " A trifle , a trifle . " I prithee , call in Falstaff . I 'll play Percy , and that damned brawn shall play Dame Mortimer his wife . " Rivo ! " says the drunkard . Call in Ribs , call in Tallow .
I would not hear your enemy say so , Nor shall you do mine ear that violence , To make it truster of your own report Against yourself . I know you are no truant . But what is your affair in Elsinore ? We 'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart .
A thousand thousand !
How is the man esteemed here in the city ?
Stephano !
What , with worms and flies ?
' Tis Gaultree Forest , an ' t shall please your Grace .
For this reason , if you 'll know : That she 's the choice love of Signior Gremio .
You always end with a jade 's trick . I know you of old .
My name is Mary , sir .
For this , be sure , tonight thou shalt have cramps , Side - stitches that shall pen thy breath up . Urchins Shall , forth at vast of night that they may work , All exercise on thee . Thou shalt be pinched As thick as honeycomb , each pinch more stinging Than bees that made ' em .
Out .
Why , horns , which such as you are fain to be beholding to your wives for . But he comes armed in his fortune and prevents the slander of his wife .
Good time of day unto your royal Grace .
This tune goes manly . Come , go we to the king . Our power is ready ; Our lack is nothing but our leave . Macbeth Is ripe for shaking , and the powers above Put on their instruments . Receive what cheer you may . The night is long that never finds the day .
But I 'll be hanged , sir , if he wear your livery . Marry , go before to field , he 'll be your follower . Your worship in that sense may call him " man . "
Ready , my lord .
And is it not well served into a sweet goose ?
Then half Signor Benedick 's tongue in Count John 's mouth , and half Count John 's melancholy in Signor Benedick 's face --
Pluck out his eyes .
I am sorry , sir , that I have hindered you , But I protest he had the chain of me , Though most dishonestly he doth deny it .
Where is this king?- -Sirs , stand you all without .
No , I warrant you , he will not hear of godliness .
I did .
Put on what weary negligence you please , You and your fellow servants . I 'll have it come to question . If he distaste it , let him to our sister , Whose mind and mine I know in that are one , Not to be overruled . Idle old man That still would manage those authorities That he hath given away ! Now by my life , Old fools are babes again and must be used With checks as flatteries , when they are seen abused . Remember what I have said .
I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us , sir .
Here comes the Prince .
What fear is this which startles in our ears ?
Make peace with God , for you must die , my lord .
So you do , hostess .
Thou hast served me with much faith . What 's else to say?- - Be jolly , lords .
I wrote to you When rioting in Alexandria . You Did pocket up my letters and with taunts Did gibe my missive out of audience .
Short summers lightly have a forward spring .
My Lord of Warwick and my brother Gloucester , Follow Fluellen closely at the heels . The glove which I have given him for a favor May haply purchase him a box o ' th ' ear . It is the soldier 's . I by bargain should Wear it myself . Follow , good cousin Warwick .
I think it lacks of twelve .
I pray thee , if it stand with honesty , Buy thou the cottage , pasture , and the flock , And thou shalt have to pay for it of us .
Content .
An thou let part so , Sir Andrew , would thou mightst never draw sword again .
Swear .
The Anthropophagi , and men whose heads Grew beneath their shoulders . These things to hear Would Desdemona seriously incline . But still the house affairs would draw her hence , Which ever as she could with haste dispatch , She 'd come again , and with a greedy ear Devour up my discourse , which I , observing , Took once a pliant hour and found good means To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart That I would all my pilgrimage dilate , Whereof by parcels she had something heard But not intentively . I did consent , And often did beguile her of her tears When I did speak of some distressful stroke That my youth suffered . My story being done She gave me for my pains a world of sighs . She swore , in faith , ' twas strange , ' twas passing strange , ' Twas pitiful , ' twas wondrous pitiful . She wished she had not heard it , yet she wished That heaven had made her such a man . She thanked me And bade me , if I had a friend that loved her , I should but teach him how to tell my story And that would woo her . Upon this hint I spake . She loved me for the dangers I had passed , And I loved her that she did pity them . This only is the witchcraft I have used . Here comes the lady . Let her witness it .
I shall drive you , then , to confess the wilfull abuse , and then I know how to handle you .
Tomorrow is the joyful day , Audrey . Tomorrow will we be married .
Your brother kings and monarchs of the earth Do all expect that you should rouse yourself As did the former lions of your blood .
That will be never . Tune your instrument .
Then he disdains to shine , for by the book He should have braved the east an hour ago A black day will it be to somebody . Ratcliffe !
And you by land .
' Twas a commodity lay fretting by you . ' Twill bring you gain or perish on the seas .
The dropsy drown this fool ! What do you mean To dote thus on such luggage ? Let 's alone , And do the murder first . If he awake , From toe to crown he 'll fill our skins with pinches , Make us strange stuff .
Where be these knaves ? What , no man at door To hold my stirrup nor to take my horse ! Where is Nathaniel , Gregory , Philip ?
I will fetch him .
Saints do not move , though grant for prayers ' sake .
A very good piece of work , I assure you , and a merry . --Now , good Peter Quince , call forth your actors by the scroll . --Masters , spread yourselves .
And do it with all thy heart .
The worser that you give me the addition Whose want even kills me .
Thou teachest me . Minion , your dear lies dead , And your unblest fate hies . Strumpet , I come . For , of my heart , those charms , thine eyes , are blotted . Thy bed , lust - stained , shall with lust 's blood be spotted .
Yes indeed . Thou wouldst make a good fool .
Assuredly you know me .
I am not mad , Sir Topas . I say to you this house is dark .
Naught , naught , all naught ! I can behold no longer . Th ' Antoniad , the Egyptian admiral , With all their sixty , fly and turn the rudder . To see ' t mine eyes are blasted .
Go to . Where lodges he ?
Well , time is the old justice that examines all such offenders , and let time try . Adieu .
Here . What would my lord ?
I 'll put it on . Send out more horses . Skirr the country round . Hang those that talk of fear . Give me mine armor . How does your patient , doctor ?
Come you to make confession to this Father ?
Is it possible that any villainy should be so dear ?
It is not lost , but what and if it were ?
Listen but speak not to ' t .
Come , you thin thing , come , you rascal .
Look , when I vow , I weep . And vows so born , In their nativity all truth appears . How can these things in me seem scorn to you , Bearing the badge of faith to prove them true ?
Under the greenwood tree Who loves to lie with me And turn his merry note Unto the sweet bird 's throat , Come hither , come hither , come hither . Here shall he see No enemy But winter and rough weather .
You should ask me what time o ' day . There 's no clock in the forest .
What 's that " ducdame " ?
Tush , tush , man , never fleer and jest at me . I speak not like a dotard nor a fool , As under privilege of age to brag What I have done being young , or what would do Were I not old . Know , Claudio , to thy head , Thou hast so wronged mine innocent child and me That I am forced to lay my reverence by , And with gray hairs and bruise of many days Do challenge thee to trial of a man . I say thou hast belied mine innocent child . Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart , And she lies buried with her ancestors , Oh , in a tomb where never scandal slept Save this of hers , framed by thy villainy .
Had you not come upon your cue , my lord , William Lord Hastings had pronounced your part -- I mean your voice for crowning of the king .
Ah , ha , my lord , this prince is not an Edward ! He is not lolling on a lewd love bed , But on his knees at meditation ; Not dallying with a brace of courtesans , But meditating with two deep divines ; Not sleeping , to engross his idle body , But praying , to enrich his watchful soul . Happy were England would this virtuous prince Take on his grave the sovereignty thereof . But sure I fear we shall not win him to it .
peace , this piece of toasted cheese will do ' t . There 's my gauntlet . I 'll prove it on a giant . Bring up the brown bills . O , well flown , bird . I ' th ' clout , i ' th ' clout . Hewgh ! Give the word .
Good reasons must of force give place to better . The people ' twixt Philippi and this ground Do stand but in a forced affection , For they have grudged us contribution . The enemy , marching along by them , By them shall make a fuller number up , Come on refreshed , new - added , and encouraged , From which advantage shall we cut him off If at Philippi we do face him there , These people at our back .
Why then , the devil give him good of it ! I 'll stay no longer question .
' Tis so indeed .
So wise so young , they say , do never live long .
Now mark him . He begins again to speak .
What is ' t you say ? " The life " ?
Do . Why , what else ?
Why , how now , ho ! From whence ariseth this ? Are we turned Turks ? And to ourselves do that Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites ? For Christian shame , put by this barbarous brawl . He that stirs next to carve for his own rage Holds his soul light , he dies upon his motion . Silence that dreadful bell , it frights the isle From her propriety . What is the matter , masters?- - Honest Iago , that looks dead with grieving , Speak , who began this ? On thy love , I charge thee .
Sheathe your dagger . Be angry when you will , it shall have scope . Do what you will , dishonor shall be humor . O Cassius , you are yoked with a lamb That carries anger as the flint bears fire , Who , much enforced , shows a hasty spark And straight is cold again .
What , ho ? Help , help , help !
A wassail candle , my lord , all tallow . If I did say of wax , my growth would approve the truth .
Go charge my goblins that they grind their joints With dry convulsions , shorten up their sinews With aged cramps , and more pinch - spotted make them Than pard or cat o ' mountain .
Take heed o ' th ' foul fiend . Obey thy parents , keep thy word 's justice , swear not , commit not with man 's sworn spouse , set not thy sweet heart on proud array . Tom 's a - cold .
Good fool , for my brother 's death .
The Duke of Milan And his more braver daughter could control thee If now ' twere fit to do ' t ! At the first sight They have changed eyes . --Delicate Ariel , I 'll set thee free for this . A word , good sir . I fear you have done yourself some wrong . A word .
This Sir John , cousin , that comes hither anon about soldiers ?
O , she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence , railed at herself that she should be so immodest to write to one that she knew would flout her . " I measure him , " says she , " by my own spirit , for I should flout him if he writ to me , yea , though I love him , I should . "
Even so .
Ay , if a woman live to be a man .
Do , good old grandsire , and withal make known Which way thou travellest . If along with us , We shall be joyful of thy company .
Good morrow , neighbor Gremio . --God save you , gentlemen !
We are for you . Sit i ' th ' middle .
Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss .
Why do you weep so oft , and beat your breast , And cry , " O Clarence , my unhappy son ? "
The old cock .
' Tis very true , And therefore be assured , my good Lord Marshal , If we do now make our atonement well , Our peace will , like a broken limb united , Grow stronger for the breaking .
O me , my heart , my rising heart ! But down .
The King , my lord , and Harry Prince of Wales Are near at hand . The rest the paper tells .
She that was ever fair and never proud , Had tongue at will and yet was never loud , Never lacked gold and yet went never gay , Fled from her wish and yet said " Now I may , " She that being angered , her revenge being nigh , Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly , She that in wisdom never was so frail To change the cod 's head for the salmon 's tail , She that could think and ne'er disclose her mind , See suitors following and not look behind , She was a wight , if ever such wights were --
Why , how now , daughter Katherine ? In your dumps ?
And how accompanied ?
What will you give us ?
Ay , and truly , you were best .
O villainy ! Ho , let the door be locked .
It hath not appeared .
Call him hither to me , soldier .
Every man shift for all the rest and let no man take care for himself , for all is but fortune . Coraggio , bully - monster , coraggio !
What is your crest ? A coxcomb ?
Away , then . I am locked in one of them . If you do love me you will find me out . -- Nerissa and the rest , stand all aloof . Let music sound while he doth make his choice . Then if he lose he makes a swanlike end , Fading in music . That the comparison May stand more proper , my eye shall be the stream And watery deathbed for him . He may win , And what is music then ? Then music is Even as the flourish when true subjects bow To a new - crowned monarch . Such it is As are those dulcet sounds in break of day That creep into the dreaming bridegroom 's ear And summon him to marriage .
Came they not by you ?
Where is your master ?
And then " I " comes behind .
Sit down and feed , and welcome to our table .
That 's good . " Mobled queen " is good .
Humphrey , my son of Gloucester , Where is the Prince your brother ?
Ay , and for that thou diest .
Let 's see , let 's see .
Right noble Burgundy , When she was dear to us we did hold her so , But now her price is fallen . Sir , there she stands . If aught within that little seeming substance , Or all of it , with our displeasure pieced And nothing more , may fitly like your grace , She 's there , and she is yours .
What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wildfowl ?
O sir , I do , and will repute you ever The patron of my life and liberty .
He calls to horse , but will I know not whither .
Naught 's had , all' s spent , Where our desire is got without content . ' Tis safer to be that which we destroy Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy .
Seek him , Titinius , whilst I go to meet The noble Brutus , thrusting this report Into his ears . I may say " thrusting " it , For piercing steel and darts envenomed Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus As tidings of this sight .
O thou untaught ! What manners is in this , To press before thy father to a grave ?
And I another .
Run , master , run . For God 's sake , take a house . This is some priory . In , or we are spoiled .
Lady , you know no rules of charity , Which renders good for bad , blessings for curses .
I warrant something from Venice . ' Tis Lodovico , this , comes from the duke . See , your wife 's with him .
Do you not love me ? Do you not indeed ? Well , do not then , for since you love me not , I will not love myself . Do you not love me ? Nay , tell me if you speak in jest or no .
Were I from Dunsinane away and clear , Profit again should hardly draw me here .
He supped at my house , but I therefore shake not .
Here 's one , a friend , and one that knows you well .
Our potency made good , take thy reward : Five days we do allot thee for provision To shield thee from diseases of the world . And on the sixth to turn thy hated back Upon our kingdom . If on the next day following Thy banished trunk be found in our dominions , The moment is thy death . Away ! By Jupiter , This shall not be revoked .
Lord Douglas , go you and tell him so .
To the succeeding royalty he leaves The healing benediction . With this strange virtue , He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy , And sundry blessings hang about his throne , That speak him full of grace .
Oh , whither hast thou led me , Egypt ? See How I convey my shame out of thine eyes By looking back what I have left behind ' Stroyed in dishonor .
Nor nothing in your letters writ of her ?
Avaunt , thou witch ! --Come , Dromio , let us go .
You wish me health in very happy season , For I am on the sudden something ill .
My name is Proculeius .
An I but fist him once , an he come but within my view --
Being that I flow in grief , The smallest twine may lead me .
How appears the fight ?
Too light for such a swain as you to catch , And yet as heavy as my weight should be .
Neither , my lord .
That 's not an office for a friend , my lord .
I should sin To think but nobly of my grandmother . Good wombs have borne bad sons .
If he should offer to choose and choose the right casket , you should refuse to perform your father 's will if you should refuse to accept him .
Turn up on your right hand at the next turning , but at the next turning of all on your left . Marry , at the very next turning turn of no hand , but turn down indirectly to the Jew 's house .
Signior , it is the Moor .
Why , let the stricken deer go weep , The hart ungalled play . For some must watch while some must sleep . So runs the world away . Would not this , sir , and a forest of feathers -- if the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me -- with two Provincial roses on my razed shoes , get me a fellowship in a cry of players ?
My liege , the duke of Buckingham is taken . That is the best news . That the earl of Richmond Is with a mighty power landed at Milford , Is colder tidings , yet they must be told .
Now , by Saint Peter 's Church and Peter too , He shall not make me there a joyful bride . I wonder at this haste , that I must wed Ere he , that should be husband , comes to woo . I pray you , tell my lord and father , madam , I will not marry yet . And when I do , I swear It shall be Romeo , whom you know I hate , Rather than Paris . These are news indeed !
What news , Borachio ?
By this light , I am well spoke on . I can hear it with my own ears . The worst that they can say of me is that I am a second brother , and that I am a proper fellow of my hands ; and those two things , I confess , I cannot help . By the Mass , here comes Bardolph .
I ' th ' mire .
The man from Sicyon --
My leg is cut in two .
Do so . This jest shall cost me some expense .
I set him there , sir , but his own disorders Deserved much less advancement .
With Demetrius .
Gods and goddesses , All the whole synod of them !
My lord , most humbly on my knee I beg The leading of the vaward .
I will have such revenges on you both That all the world shall --I will do such things -- What they are yet I know not , but they shall be The terrors of the earth . You think I 'll weep ? No , I 'll not weep .
I give it you , and will maintain my word , And thereupon I drink unto your Grace .
My necessaries are embarked . Farewell . And , sister , as the winds give benefit And convey is assistant , do not sleep , But let me hear from you .
The Constables have delivered her over to me , and she shall have whipping cheer enough , I warrant her . There hath been a man or two lately killed about her .
And I am mean indeed , respecting you .
O mistress , mistress , shift and save yourself . My master and his man are both broke loose , Beaten the maids a - row , and bound the doctor , Whose beard they have singed off with brands of fire , And ever as it blazed , they threw on him Great pails of puddled mire to quench the hair . My master preaches patience to him , and the while His man with scissors nicks him like a fool ; And sure , unless you send some present help , Between them they will kill the conjurer .
Let this be so . His means of death , his obscure funeral -- No trophy , sword , nor hatchment o'er his bones , No noble rite nor formal ostentation -- Cry to be heard as ' twere from heaven to earth , That I must call 't in question .
What ! This gentleman will out - talk us all .
I have some marks of yours upon my pate , Some of my mistress ' marks upon my shoulders , But not a thousand marks between you both . If I should pay your worship those again , Perchance you will not bear them patiently .
And I 'll go seek the duke . His banquet is prepared .
I did not then entreat to have her stay . It was your pleasure and your own remorse . I was too young that time to value her , But now I know her . If she be a traitor , Why so am I. We still have slept together , Rose at an instant , learned , played , eat together , And , wheresoe'er we went , like Juno 's swans Still we went coupled and inseparable .
Good morrow , Kate - -for that 's your name , I hear .
Shall we shog ? The King will be gone from Southampton .
I thank thee , master .
I pray thee , lend me thine .
O excellent motion ! Fellows , let 's be gone .
You serve Octavius Caesar , do you not ?
I pray you , tell it .
Troth , sir , I can yield you none without words , and words are grown so false , I am loath to prove reason with them .
Nay , not sure , in a thing falsing .
I will do this , if you can bring it to any opportunity .
Why , because he was mad . He shall recover his wits there , or , if he do not , it 's no great matter there .
I look down towards his feet , but that 's a fable . If that thou be 'st a devil , I cannot kill thee .
Why , you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman , for I cannot see how sleeping should offend . Only have a care that your bills be not stolen . Well , you are to call at all the alehouses and bid those that are drunk get them to bed .
To kill him , Clitus . Look , he meditates .
No , nor I neither . I 'll be at your elbow .
Where is Polonius ?
Have patience , I beseech .
Is Claudio thine enemy ?
Good fortune then ! -- To make me blessed or cursed 'st among men .
Pardon , dear father .
These eyes could never endure that beauty 's wrack . You should not blemish it , if I stood by . As all the world is cheered by the sun , So I by that . It is my day , my life .
Why comest thou ?
Here , sir .
I pray you , sir , is it your will To make a stale of me amongst these mates ?
Then live , Macduff . What need I fear of thee ? But yet I 'll make assurance double sure , And take a bond of fate . Thou shalt not live , That I may tell pale - hearted fear it lies , And sleep in spite of thunder .
Gentlemen , rise . His highness is not well .
A good swift simile , but something currish .
Good Mistress Mary Accost --
Harry the Fourth , or Fifth ?
Nay , my troth , I know not . But I know to be up late is to be up late .
That will I. Go , Biondello , bid your mistress come to me .
He hath , my lord .
Will you thus break your faith ?
Statilius showed the torchlight but , my lord , He came not back . He is or ta'en or slain .
Gentle Octavia , Let your best love draw to that point which seeks Best to preserve it . If I lose mine honor , I lose myself ; better I were not yours Than yours so branchless . But , as you requested , Yourself shall go between ' s . The meantime , lady , I 'll raise the preparation of a war Shall stain your brother . Make your soonest haste ; So your desires are yours .
Say what , is Horatio there ?
Why do you look on us and shake your head , And call us orphans , wretches , castaways , If that our noble father were alive ?
Most potent , grave , and reverend signiors , My very noble and approved good masters , That I have ta'en away this old man 's daughter , It is most true . True , I have married her . The very head and front of my offending Hath this extent , no more . Rude am I in my speech , And little blessed with the soft phrase of peace , For since these arms of mine had seven years ' pith Till now some nine moons wasted , they have used Their dearest action in the tented field , And little of this great world can I speak ,
If this prove A vision of the Island , one dear son Shall I twice lose .
Signior Baptista , will you be so strange ? Sorry am I that our goodwill effects Bianca 's grief .
Your features , Lord warrant us ! What features ?
There is a fair behavior in thee , captain , And though that nature with a beauteous wall Doth oft close in pollution , yet of thee I will believe thou hast a mind that suits With this thy fair and outward character . I prithee -- and I 'll pay thee bounteously -- Conceal me what I am , and be my aid For such disguise as haply shall become The form of my intent . I 'll serve this duke . Thou shall present me as an eunuch to him . It may be worth thy pains , for I can sing And speak to him in many sorts of music That will allow me very worth his service . What else may hap to time I will commit . Only shape thou thy silence to my wit .
Oh , that we now had here But one ten thousand of those men in England That do no work today .
I thank thee for that jest . Here 's a garment for ' t . Wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of this country . " Steal by line and level " is an excellent pass of pate . There 's another garment for ' t .
True , noble prince .
Here 's neither bush nor shrub to bear off any weather at all . And another storm brewing , I hear it sing i ' th ' wind . Yond same black cloud , yond huge one , looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor . If it should thunder as it did before , I know not where to hide my head . Yond same cloud cannot choose but fall by pailfuls .
But it becomes me well enough , does ' t not ?
It touches you , my lord , as much as me .
Ay , and he 'll tame her .
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players . Mark it . -- You say right , sir . O ' Monday morning , ' twas so indeed .
Ay , sweet Rosalind .
First he denied you had in him no right .
Nothing of that wonderful promise , to read him by his form , as you are like to find him in the proof of his valor . He is , indeed , sir , the most skillful , bloody , and fatal opposite that you could possibly have found in any part of Illyria . Will you walk towards him ? I will make your peace with him if I can .
I have seen nothing .
Nay , good , be patient .
I will do so . But , look you , Cassius , The angry spot doth glow on Caesar 's brow , And all the rest look like a chidden train . Calphurnia 's cheek is pale , and Cicero Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes As we have seen him in the Capitol Being crossed in conference by some senators .
Then have my lips the sin that they have took .
Thy business ?
Well , let his father be what he will , we talk of young Master Launcelot .
Know 'st thou not any whom corrupting gold Will tempt unto a close exploit of death ?
Nay , but he prated And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms Against your honor That , with the little godliness I have , I did full hard forbear him . But I pray you , sir , Are you fast married ? Be assured of this : That the Magnifico is much beloved And hath in his effect a voice potential As double as the Duke 's . He will divorce you , Or put upon you what restraint and grievance The law Will give him cable .
Sit .
Jove , I thank thee ! I will smile . I will do everything that thou wilt have me .
He 's within , sir , but not to be spoken withal .
My lord ?
That 's most certain .
Shall I ? O rare ! By the Lord , I 'll be a brave judge .
I ' faith , I thank him . He hath bid me to a calf 's head and a capon , the which if I do not carve most curiously , say my knife 's naught . Shall I not find a woodcock too ?
What name , fair lady ?
Perchance ? Nay , and most like . You must not stay here longer . Your dismission Is come from Caesar . Therefore hear it , Antony . Where 's Fulvia 's process ? Caesar 's , I would say -- both ? Call in the messengers . As I am Egypt 's queen , Thou blushest , Antony , and that blood of thine Is Caesar 's homager . Else so thy cheek pays shame When shrill - tongued Fulvia scolds . The messengers !
You do not counsel well . You speak it out of fear and cold heart .
We shall , my lord , Perform what you command us .
By my troth , 's but a nightgown in respect of yours -- cloth o ' gold , and cuts , and laced with silver , set with pearls , down sleeves , side sleeves , and skirts , round underborne with a bluish tinsel . But for a fine , quaint , graceful , and excellent fashion , yours is worth ten on ' t .
And thou art honest too . I wish I could be made so many men , And all of you clapped up together in An Antony , that I might do you service So good as you have done .
Death , traitor ! Nothing could have subdued nature To such a lowness but his unkind daughters . Is it the fashion that discarded fathers Should have thus little mercy on their flesh ? Judicious punishment ! ' Twas this flesh begot Those pelican daughters .
Come , Grey . Come , Vaughan . Let us all embrace . They embrace Farewell until we meet in heaven .
The games are done and Caesar is returning .
That roan shall be my throne . Well , I will back him straight . O , Esperance ! Bid Butler lead him forth into the park .
You say true . Why , what a candy deal of courtesy This fawning greyhound then did proffer me : " Look when his infant fortune came to age , " And " gentle Harry Percy , " and " kind cousin . " O , the devil take such cozeners ! --God forgive me ! Good uncle , tell your tale . I have done .
That she was false to wedlock ?
Welcome , my lord . What , will our mother come ?
Madam , there is alighted at your gate A young Venetian , one that comes before To signify th ' approaching of his lord , From whom he bringeth sensible regreets , To wit -- besides commends and courteous breath -- Gifts of rich value . Yet I have not seen So likely an ambassador of love . A day in April never came so sweet To show how costly summer was at hand , As this forespurrer comes before his lord .
It shall serve among wits of no higher breeding than thine .
Alas , she has no speech !
Off with his son George 's head !
You press me far and therefore I will yield . Give me your gloves . I 'll wear them for your sake . And for your love , I 'll take this ring from you . Do not draw back your hand . I 'll take no more , And you in love shall not deny me this .
With any strong or vehement importunity . Much will be seen in that . In the meantime , Let me be thought too busy in my fears -- As worthy cause I have to fear I am -- And hold her free , I do beseech your honor .
My nyas ?
' Sblood , my lord , they are false . -- Nay , I 'll tickle you for a young prince , i ' faith .
Oh , she says nothing , sir , but weeps and weeps , And now falls on her bed , and then starts up , And " Tybalt " calls , and then on Romeo cries , And then down falls again .
Is it so , sir ?
Why , thou globe of sinful continents , what a life dost thou lead ?
I will not have it so . Lie down , good sirs . It may be I shall otherwise bethink me . --Look , Lucius , here 's the book I sought for so . I put it in the pocket of my gown .
What means this , my lord ?
Good name in man and woman , dear my lord , Is the immediate jewel of their souls . Who steals my purse steals trash . ' Tis something , nothing : ' Twas mine , ' tis his , and has been slave to thousands . But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him And makes me poor indeed .
Do , good William .
The same indeed , a very valiant fellow .
Welcome , dear madam . Each heart in Rome does love and pity you . Only th ' adulterous Antony , most large In his abominations , turns you off And gives his potent regiment to a trull That noises it against us .
Never , never ; she would always say she could not abide Master Shallow .
The mayor is here at hand . Intend some fear ; Be not you spoke with but by mighty suit . And look you get a prayer book in your hand And stand between two churchmen , good my lord , For on that ground I 'll make a holy descant . And be not easily won to our requests . Play the maid 's part : still answer " nay , " and take it .
What make you from home ? How is ' t with you , my most fair Bianca ? Indeed , sweet love , I was coming to your house .
Paddock calls .
Now .
Let me but move one question to your daughter , And by that fatherly and kindly power That you have in her , bid her answer truly .
He that will think to live till he be old , Give me some help !
Peace , you fat - kidneyed rascal . What a brawling dost thou keep !
At thy good heart 's oppression .
Did he never make you laugh ?
But wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens ? It is the part of men to fear and tremble When the most mighty gods by tokens send Such dreadful heralds to astonish us .
Be you quiet , monster . --Mistress line , is not this my jerkin ? Now is the jerkin under the line . --Now , jerkin , you are like to lose your hair and prove a bald jerkin .
Sir , I invite your highness and your train To my poor cell , where you shall take your rest For this one night , which -- part of it --I 'll waste With such discourse as , I not doubt , shall make it Go quick away : the story of my life And the particular accidents gone by Since I came to this isle . And in the morn I 'll bring you to your ship and so to Naples , Where I have hope to see the nuptial Of these our dear - beloved solemnized , And thence retire me to my Milan , where Every third thought shall be my grave .
And let us choose such limbs of noble counsel That the great body of our state may go In equal rank with the best governed nation ; That war , or peace , or both at once , may be As things acquainted and familiar to us , In which you , father , shall have foremost hand . Our coronation done , we will accite , As I before remembered , all our state . And , God consigning to my good intents , No prince nor peer shall have just cause to say God shorten Harry 's happy life one day .
Break , heart . I prithee , break !
Will you have me , lady ?
O me , O me ! My child , my only life , Revive , look up , or I will die with thee ! -- Help , help ! Call help .
Neither to you nor any one , having no witness to confirm my speech .
I take some joy to say you are because I would be talking of her .
This admiration , sir , is much o ' th ' savor Of other your new pranks . I do beseech you To understand my purposes aright . As you are old and reverend , should be wise . Here do you keep a hundred knights and squires , Men so disordered , so debauched and bold That this our court , infected with their manners , Shows like a riotous inn . Epicurism and lust Make it more like a tavern or a brothel Than a graced palace . The shame itself doth speak For instant remedy . Be then desired By her that else will take the thing she begs , A little to disquantity your train , And the remainder that shall still depend To be such men as may besort your age , Which know themselves and you .
The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you . The gentleman that danced with her told her she is much wronged by you .
Silence is the perfectest herald of joy . I were but little happy if I could say how much . --Lady , as you are mine , I am yours . I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange .
I 'll give thee armor to keep off that word -- Adversity 's sweet milk , philosophy -- To comfort thee though thou art banished .
A stranger Pyramus than e' er played here .
Many good morrows to your Majesty .
Who comes with her ?
Come , Antony , away . -- Defiance , traitors , hurl we in your teeth . If you dare fight today , come to the field . If not , when you have stomachs .
To tell thee thou shalt see me at Philippi .
Why , such is love 's transgression . Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast , Which thou wilt propagate , to have it pressed With more of thine . This love that thou hast shown Doth add more grief to too much of mine own . Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs ; Being purged , a fire sparkling in lovers ' eyes ; Being vexed , a sea nourished with loving tears . What is it else ? A madness most discreet , A choking gall , and a preserving sweet . Farewell , my coz .
Is ' t come to that ? I had thought weariness durst not have attached one of so high blood .
Is Antony or we in fault for this ?
My most exquisite Sir Topas !
Signior Baptista , you are happily met . -- Sir , this is the gentleman I told you of . I pray you stand good father to me now . Give me Bianca for my patrimony .
This would drink deep .
Come on , come on . Where is your boar - spear , man ? Fear you the boar , and go so unprovided ?
Hang her ! I do but say what she is . So delicate with her needle , an admirable musician . Oh , she will sing the savageness out of a bear ! Of so high and plenteous wit and invention !
At hand , quoth pickpurse .
How now , what 's the matter ?
Rarely , rarely . He that unbuckles this , till we do please To doff ' t for our repose , shall hear a storm . -- Thou fumblest , Eros , and my Queen 's a squire More tight at this than thou . Dispatch . --O love , That thou couldst see my wars today , and knew 'st The royal occupation ! Thou shouldst see A workman in ' t .
What , my young master , O my gentle master , O my sweet master , O you memory Of old Sir Rowland ! Why , what make you here ? Why are you virtuous ? Why do people love you ? And wherefore are you gentle , strong , and valiant ? Why would you be so fond to overcome The bonny prizer of the humorous duke ? Your praise is come too swiftly home before you . Know you not , master , to some kind of men Their graces serve them but as enemies ? No more do yours . Your virtues , gentle master , Are sanctified and holy traitors to you . Oh , what a world is this when what is comely Envenoms him that bears it !
I have a letter guessingly set down , Which came from one that 's of a neutral heart , And not from one opposed .
I think it is my Lord of Westmoreland .
What 's the matter ?
What is the matter ?
Say " better . " Here comes one of my master 's kinsmen .
Any bar , any cross , any impediment will be med'cinable to me . I am sick in displeasure to him , and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges evenly with mine . How canst thou cross this marriage ?
I pray thee , cease thy counsel , Which falls into mine ears as profitless As water in a sieve . Give not me counsel , Nor let no comforter delight mine ear But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine . Bring me a father that so loved his child , Whose joy of her is overwhelmed like mine , And bid him speak of patience . Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine , And let it answer every strain for strain , As thus for thus and such a grief for such , In every lineament , branch , shape , and form . If such a one will smile and stroke his beard , Bid sorrow wag , cry " hem " when he should groan , Patch grief with proverbs , make misfortune drunk With candle - wasters , bring him yet to me And I of him will gather patience . But there is no such man . For , brother , men Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief Which they themselves not feel , but , tasting it , Their counsel turns to passion which before Would give preceptial med'cine to rage , Fetter strong madness in a silken thread , Charm ache with air , and agony with words .
' Tis almost morning . I would have thee gone . And yet no further than a wanton 's bird , That lets it hop a little from his hand Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves , And with a silken thread plucks it back again , So loving - jealous of his liberty .
Let it be cast and paid . --Sir John , you shall not be excused .
Benedictus ! Why benedictus ? You have some moral in this benedictus ?
How might we see Falstaff bestow himself tonight in his true colors , and not ourselves be seen ?
Yes , if this present quality of war -- Indeed the instant action , a cause on foot -- Lives so in hope , as in an early spring We see the appearing buds , which to prove fruit Hope gives not so much warrant as despair That frosts will bite them . When we mean to build , We first survey the plot , then draw the model , And when we see the figure of the house , Then must we rate the cost of the erection , Which if we find outweighs ability , What do we then but draw anew the model In fewer offices , or at last desist To build at all ? Much more in this great work , Which is almost to pluck a kingdom down And set another up , should we survey The plot of situation and the model , Consent upon a sure foundation , Question surveyors , know our own estate , How able such a work to undergo , To weigh against his opposite . Or else
And Duncan 's horses -- a thing most strange and certain -- Beauteous and swift , the minions of their race , Turned wild in nature , broke their stalls , flung out , Contending ' gainst obedience , as they would Make war with mankind .
I know not , mighty sovereign , but by guess .
She 'll none o ' the count . She 'll not match above her degree , neither in estate , years , nor wit . I have heard her swear ' t . Tut , there 's life in ' t , man .
' Tis new to thee .
And though we here fall down , We have supplies to second our attempt ; If they miscarry , theirs shall second them ,
Be that the uttermost , and fail not then .
Truly , my name is Cinna .
Saint Francis be my speed ! How oft tonight Have my old feet stumbled at graves ! --Who 's there ?
Whose was it ?
But , wrangling pedant , this is The patroness of heavenly harmony . Then give me leave to have prerogative , And when in music we have spent an hour , Your lecture shall have leisure for as much .
Love me or love me not , I like the cap , And it I will have , or I will have none .
Say in mine ear . What is ' t ?
So foul and fair a day I have not seen .
No , madam , no . I may not leave it so . I am bound by oath , and therefore pardon me .
Why , I am glad on ' t . This is well . Stand up .
To this chair bind him . --Villain , thou shalt find --
To who ?
My good friends , I 'll leave you till night . You are welcome to Elsinore .
What o'clock tomorrow Shall I send to thee ?
And leave out thee ? Stay , dog , for thou shalt hear me . If heaven have any grievous plague in store Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee , O , let them keep it till thy sins be ripe And then hurl down their indignation On thee , the troubler of the poor world 's peace . The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul . Thy friends suspect for traitors while thou liv'st , And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends . No sleep close up that deadly eye of thine , Unless it be while some tormenting dream Affrights thee with a hell of ugly devils .
Or do but lift this arm , the best of you Shall sink in my rebuke . Give me to know How this foul rout began , who set it on , And he that is approved in this offence , Though he had twinned with me , both at a birth , Shall lose me . What , in a town of war Yet wild , the people 's hearts brimful of fear , To manage private and domestic quarrel ? In night , and on the court and guard of safety ? ' Tis monstrous . Iago , who began ' t ?
I do not know the matter . He is ' rested on the case .
A segregation of the Turkish fleet . For do but stand upon the foaming shore , The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds , The wind - shaked surge , with high and monstrous mane , Seems to cast water on the burning bear , And quench the guards of th ' ever - fixed pole . I never did like molestation view On the enchafed flood .
Bear me , good friends , where Cleopatra bides . ' Tis the last service that I shall command you .
I do not , sir .
Via les eaux et la terre .
Well , keep me company but two years more , Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue .
I would it had been of horse . Where shall I find one that can steal well ? O , for a fine thief of the age of two and twenty or thereabouts ! I am heinously unprovided . Well , God be thanked for these rebels . They offend none but the virtuous . I laud them ; I praise them .
Your good Worship is welcome .
Why , man , what is the matter ?
Farewell ! --God knows when we shall meet again . I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins That almost freezes up the heat of life . I 'll call them back again to comfort me . -- Nurse ! --What should she do here ?
Let 's follow . ' Tis not fit thus to obey him .
O my son , what theme ?
The heavens have blessed you with a goodly son To be your comforter when he is gone .
Most sincerely .
Known unto these , and to myself disguised ! I 'll say as they say , and persever so , And in this mist at all adventures go .
What is your will that I shall do with this ?
You mistake me , sir .
Pistol , I would be quiet .
Grieve not that I am fall'n to this for you , For herein Fortune shows herself more kind Than is her custom . It is still her use To let the wretched man outlive his wealth , To view with hollow eye and wrinkled brow An age of poverty -- from which lingering penance Of such misery doth she cut me off . Commend me to your honorable wife . Tell her the process of Antonio 's end . Say how I loved you . Speak me fair in death . And when the tale is told , bid her be judge Whether Bassanio had not once a love . Repent but you that you shall lose your friend , And he repents not that he pays your debt . For if the Jew do cut but deep enough , I 'll pay it presently with all my heart .
Though our lives --
Yea , and my father .
So is the fame . Would we had spoke together ! Haste we for it . Yet , ere we put ourselves in arms , dispatch we The business we have talked of .
Why dost thou use me thus ? I know thee not .
Merchant of Syracuse , plead no more . I am not partial to infringe our laws . The enmity and discord which of late Sprung from the rancorous outrage of your duke To merchants , our well - dealing countrymen , Who , wanting guilders to redeem their lives , Have seal 'd his rigorous statutes with their bloods , Excludes all pity from our threatening looks . For , since the mortal and intestine jars ' Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us , It hath in solemn synods been decreed Both by the Syracusians and ourselves , To admit no traffic to our adverse towns . Nay , more , if any born at Ephesus Be seen at any Syracusian marts and fairs ; Again , if any Syracusian born Come to the bay of Ephesus , he dies , His goods confiscate to the Duke 's dispose , Unless a thousand marks be levied To quit the penalty and to ransom him . Thy substance , valued at the highest rate , Cannot amount unto a hundred marks ; Therefore by law thou art condemned to die .
To have no man come over me ! Why , shall I always keep below stairs ?
' Tis gone and will not answer .
Hillo , ho , ho , boy . Come , bird , come .
Nay , if I keep not my rank --
C' est assez pour une fois : Allons - nous a d " ner .
Never came poison from so sweet a place .
That 's but a trifle here . -- You lords and noble friends , know our intent . What comfort to this great decay may come Shall be applied . For us , we will resign During the life of this old majesty To him our absolute power .
Excellent , i ' faith , of the chameleon 's dish . I eat the air , promise - crammed . You cannot feed capons so .
Ha , art thou bedlam ? Dost thou thirst , base Trojan , to have me fold up Parca 's fatal web ? Hence . I am qualmish at the smell of leek .
As you shall prove us , praise us .
Why , so can I , or so can any man , But will they come when you do call for them ?
Fair sir , I pity her And wish , for her sake more than for mine own , My fortunes were more able to relieve her . But I am shepherd to another man And do not shear the fleeces that I graze . My master is of churlish disposition And little recks to find the way to heaven By doing deeds of hospitality . Besides , his cote , his flocks , and bounds of feed Are now on sale , and at our sheepcote now , By reason of his absence , there is nothing That you will feed on . But what is , come see , And in my voice most welcome shall you be .
It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will . Come , be a man . Drown thyself ? Drown cats and blind puppies ! I have professed me thy friend , and I confess me knit to thy deserving with cables of perdurable toughness .
When I spoke that , I was ill-tempered too .
Amen .
Not a whit . I have a device to make all well . Write me a prologue , and let the prologue seem to say we will do no harm with our swords , and that Pyramus is not killed indeed . And for the more better assurance , tell them that I , Pyramus , am not Pyramus , but Bottom the weaver . This will put them out of fear .
My lord Sebastian , The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness And time to speak it in . You rub the sore When you should bring the plaster .
I bleed , sir , but not killed .
And in good time you gave it .
But one fiend at a time , I 'll fight their legions o'er .
Forsake thy seat , I do beseech thee , captain , And hear me speak a word .
Indeed the short and the long is , I serve the Jew and have a desire , as my father shall specify --
Where is my lord the duke of Gloucester ? I have sent for these strawberries .
Fair princess , you have lost much good sport .
Wherefore should you do this ?
Why -- after I have cut the egg i ' th ' middle and eat up the meat -- the two crowns of the egg . When thou clovest thy crown i ' th ' middle , and gavest away both parts , thou borest thy ass o ' th ' back o'er the dirt . Thou hadst little wit in thy bald crown when thou gavest thy golden one away . If I speak like myself in this , let him be whipped that first finds it so . Fools had ne'er less wit in a year , For wise men are grown foppish . They know not how their wits to wear , Their manners are so apish .
Music , ho ! Music such as charmeth sleep !
What , I say ? My foot my tutor?- -Put thy sword up , traitor , Who makest a show but darest not strike , thy conscience Is so possessed with guilt . Come from thy ward , For I can here disarm thee with this stick And make thy weapon drop .
Up to the breach , you dogs ! Avaunt , you cullions !
' Tis true . There 's magic in the web of it . A sibyl , that had numbered in the world The sun to course two hundred compasses , In her prophetic fury sewed the work . The worms were hallowed that did breed the silk , And it was dyed in mummy which the skillful Conserved of maidens ' hearts .
O God , they did me too much injury That ever said I hearkened for your death . If it were so , I might have let alone The insulting hand of Douglas over you , Which would have been as speedy in your end As all the poisonous potions in the world , And saved the treacherous labor of your son .
Thy reason , dear venom , give thy reason .
Sir John , I sent for you before your expedition to Shrewsbury .
My good lord , I guess their tenor .
What ?
In her chamber , Making a sermon of continency to her , And rails and swears and rates , that she , poor soul , Knows not which way to stand , to look , to speak , And sits as one new - risen from a dream . Away , away , for he is coming hither !
Well , go thy ways , old lad , for thou shalt ha ' t .
What , to York ? Call him back again .
You have misled the youthful Prince .
I wonder at it .
' Tis torture and not mercy . Heaven is here , Where Juliet lives , and every cat and dog And little mouse , every unworthy thing , Live here in heaven and may look on her , But Romeo may not . More validity , More honorable state , more courtship lives In carrion flies than Romeo . They may seize On the white wonder of dear Juliet 's hand And steal immortal blessing from her lips , Who even in pure and vestal modesty , Still blush , as thinking their own kisses sin . But Romeo may not . He is banished . Flies may do this , but I from this must fly . They are free men , but I am banished . And sayst thou yet that exile is not death ? Hadst thou no poison mixed , no sharp - ground knife , No sudden mean of death , though ne'er so mean , But " banished " to kill me?- - " Banished " ! O Friar , the damned use that word in hell . Howling attends it . How hast thou the heart , Being a divine , a ghostly confessor , A sin - absolver , and my friend professed , To mangle me with that word " banished " ?
No more than from my soul I mourn for yours .
Nay , like enough , for I stay dinner there .
Fury , Fury ! --There , Tyrant , there . Hark , hark !
' Tis most convenient . Pray you , go with us .
Sir , I will eat no meat , I 'll not drink , sir . If idle talk will once be necessary , I 'll not sleep neither . This mortal house I 'll ruin , Do Caesar what he can . Know , sir , that I Will not wait pinioned at your master 's court , Nor once be chastised with the sober eye Of dull Octavia . Shall they hoist me up And show me to the shouting varletry Of censuring Rome ? Rather a ditch in Egypt Be gentle grave unto me . Rather on Nilus ' mud Lay me stark naked and let the waterflies Blow me into abhorring . Rather make My country 's high pyramides my gibbet And hang me up in chains !
' Tis two or three , my lord , that bring you word Macduff is fled to England .
What relish is in this ? How runs the stream ? Or I am mad , or else this is a dream . Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep .
Do , do . We steal by line and level , an ' t like your grace .
She is stirring , sir . If she will stir hither , I shall seem to notify unto her .
Nay , we will all of us be there to fetch him .
And so do I.
When it appears to you where this begins , Turn your displeasure that way , for our faults Can never be so equal that your love Can equally move with them . Provide your going ; Choose your own company and command what cost Your heart has mind to .
Safely in harbor Is the king 's ship . In the deep nook where once Thou called' st me up at midnight to fetch dew From the still - vexed Bermoothes , there she 's hid .
tallow in them will burn a Poland winter . If she lives till doomsday , she 'll burn a week longer than the whole world .
Oh , ho , do you mark that ?
Away ! I have nothing to do with thee .
O Lord , I could have stayed here all the night To hear good counsel . Oh , what learning is ! My lord , I 'll tell my lady you will come .
Marry , well bethought . ' Tis told me he hath very oft of late Given private time to you , and you yourself Have of your audience been most free and bounteous . If it be so as so ' tis put on me -- And that in way of caution --I must tell you , You do not understand yourself so clearly As it behooves my daughter and your honor . What is between you ? Give me up the truth .
He was the first that ever bore arms .
In what part of her body stands Ireland ?
We breathe too long . Come , cousin Westmoreland , Our duty this way lies . For God 's sake , come .
Let go my hand . Here , friend , 's another purse , in it a jewel Well worth a poor man 's taking . Fairies and gods Prosper it with thee ! Go thou farther off . Bid me farewell , and let me hear thee going .
Saturn and Venus this year in conjunction ! What says th ' almanac to that ?
Orsino . I have heard my father name him . He was a bachelor then .
He is justly served . It is a poison tempered by himself . Exchange forgiveness with me , noble Hamlet . Mine and my father 's death come not upon thee , Nor thine on me .
Pray , sir , be patient .
Harry the Fourth .
Bleed , bleed , poor country ! Great tyranny , lay thou thy basis sure , For goodness dare not check thee . Wear thou thy wrongs ; The title is affeered . --Fare thee well , lord . I would not be the villain that thou think 'st For the whole space that 's in the tyrant 's grasp , And the rich East to boot .
Madam , I will .
There 's earnest of thy service .
The very same .
In what , my dear lord ?
The ground indeed is tawny .
A match !
Are there no stones in heaven But what serve for the thunder?- -Precious villain !
No marvel , lord , though it affrighted you . I am afraid , methinks , to hear you tell it .
Sent he to Macduff ?
Do you confess so much ? Give me your hand .
Nay , I hope .
Well , in that hit you miss . She 'll not be hit With Cupid 's arrow . She hath Dian 's wit . And , in strong proof of chastity well armed From love 's weak childish bow , she lives uncharmed . She will not stay the siege of loving terms , Nor bide th ' encounter of assailing eyes , Nor ope her lap to saint - seducing gold . Oh , she is rich in beauty , only poor That when she dies , with beauty dies her store .
Faith , for their poverty , I know not where they had that , and for their bareness , I am sure they never learned that of me .
No , not so , villain , thou beliest thyself . Here stand a pair of honorable men -- A third is fled -- that had a hand in it . -- I thank you , princes , for my daughter 's death . Record it with your high and worthy deeds . ' Twas bravely done , if you bethink you of it .
We have been up and down to seek him .
What you will , Monsieur Jaques .
Princes and counties ! Surely , a princely testimony , a goodly count , Count Comfect , a sweet gallant , surely ! Oh , that I were a man for his sake ! Or that I had any friend would be a man for my sake ! But manhood is melted into curtsies , valor into compliment , and men are only turned into tongue , and trim ones too . He is now as valiant as Hercules that only tells a lie and swears it . I cannot be a man with wishing , therefore I will die a woman with grieving .
That 's the worst tidings that I hear of yet .
You are too great to be by me gainsaid , Your spirit is too true , your fears too certain .
Then let thy love be younger than thyself , Or thy affection cannot hold the bent . For women are as roses , whose fair flower Being once displayed , doth fall that very hour .
Now , my lord , what shall we do , if we perceive Lord Hastings will not yield to our complots ?
Oh , for a muse of fire that would ascend The brightest heaven of invention ! A kingdom for a stage , princes to act , And monarchs to behold the swelling scene ! Then should the warlike Harry , like himself , Assume the port of Mars , and at his heels , Leashed in like hounds , should famine , sword , and fire Crouch for employment . But pardon , gentles all , The flat unraised spirits that hath dared On this unworthy scaffold to bring forth So great an object . Can this cockpit hold The vasty fields of France ? Or may we cram Within this wooden O the very casques That did affright the air at Agincourt ? O pardon , since a crooked figure may Attest in little place a million , And let us , ciphers to this great account , On your imaginary forces work . Suppose within the girdle of these walls Are now confined two mighty monarchies Whose high upreared and abutting fronts The perilous narrow ocean parts asunder . Piece out our imperfections with your thoughts . Into a thousand parts divide one man , And make imaginary puissance . Think , when we talk of horses , that you see them Printing their proud hoofs i ' th ' receiving earth , For ' tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings , Carry them here and there , jumping o'er times ,
Then came each actor on his ass --
What one , my lord ?
There was no thought of pleasing you when she was christened .
We will haste us .
I 'll have no bigger . This doth fit the time , And gentlewomen wear such caps as these .
What love could press Lysander from my side ?
She will indite him to some supper .
O God of battles , steel my soldiers ' hearts . Possess them not with fear . Take from them now The sense of reck'ning ere th ' opposed numbers Pluck their hearts from them . Not today , O Lord , Oh , not today , think not upon the fault My father made in compassing the crown . I Richard 's body have interred anew , And on it have bestowed more contrite tears Than from it issued forced drops of blood . Five hundred poor I have in yearly pay , Who twice a day their withered hands hold up Toward heaven to pardon blood . And I have built Two chantries where the sad and solemn priests Sing still for Richard 's soul . More will I do -- Though all that I can do is nothing worth , Since that my penitence comes after all , Imploring pardon .
I answer you ? What should I answer you ?
My lord is fall'n into an epilepsy . This is his second fit . He had one yesterday .
Thrice noble lord , let me entreat of you To pardon me yet for a night or two , Or if not so , until the sun be set . For your physicians have expressly charged , In peril to incur your former malady , That I should yet absent me from your bed . I hope this reason stands for my excuse .
Let him do his spite . My services which I have done the signiory Shall out - tongue his complaints . ' Tis yet to know -- Which , when I know that boasting is an honor , I shall promulgate . I fetch my life and being From men of royal siege , and my demerits May speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune As this that I have reached . For know , Iago , But that I love the gentle Desdemona , I would not my unhoused free condition Put into circumscription and confine For the sea 's worth . But look , what lights come yond ?
Therefore let Benedick , like covered fire , Consume away in sighs , waste inwardly . It were a better death than die with mocks , Which is as bad as die with tickling .
Nay , faith , I 'll see the church a ' your back , and then come back to my master 's as soon as I can .
What is amiss ?
I will tell you why . So shall my anticipation prevent your discovery , and your secrecy to the king and queen moult no feather . I have of late -- but wherefore I know not -- lost all my mirth , forgone all custom of exercises , and indeed it goes so heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame , the earth , seems to me a sterile promontory ; this most excellent canopy , the air -- look you , this brave o'erhanging firmament , this majestical roof fretted with golden fire -- why , it appears no other thing to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapors . What a piece of work is a man ! How noble in reason , how infinite in faculty ! In form and moving how express and admirable ! In action how like an angel , in apprehension how like a god ! The beauty of the world . The paragon of animals . And yet , to me , what is this quintessence of dust ? Man delights not me . No , nor woman neither , though by your smiling you seem to say so .
What woman , then ?
Why do they run away ? This is a knavery of them to make me afeard .
It is best , certain .
Then poor Cordelia ! And yet not so , since I am sure my love 's More ponderous than my tongue .
In sooth , you are to blame .
Oh , look , sir , look , sir ! Here is more of us . I prophesied if a gallows were on land , This fellow could not drown . Now , blasphemy , That swear 'st grace o'erboard , not an oath on shore ? Hast thou no mouth by land ? What is the news ?
Shall I hear from you anon ?
O Clitus !
He that plays the king shall be welcome . His majesty shall have tribute of me . The adventurous knight shall use his foil and target , the lover shall not sigh gratis , the humorous man shall end his part in peace , the clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o ' th ' sear , and the lady shall say her mind freely , or the blank verse shall halt for ' t . What players are they ?
I am heartily glad I came hither to you . If he come tomorrow , I 'll give him his payment . If ever he go alone again , I 'll never wrestle for prize more . And so God keep your Worship .
Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him .
There thou speak 'st reason . Nay , I will do so . My soul doth tell me Hero is belied , And that shall Claudio know ; so shall the Prince And all of them that thus dishonor her .
Good fortune , worthy soldier , and farewell .
As wicked dew as e' er my mother brushed With raven 's feather from unwholesome fen Drop on you both ! A southwest blow on ye And blister you all o'er !
Lies all within . --Deliver me the key . Here do I choose , and thrive I as I may !
Under the hatches . The Master and the Boatswain Being awake , enforce them to this place , And presently , I prithee .
West of this place , down in the neighbor bottom , The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream Left on your right hand brings you to the place . But at this hour the house doth keep itself . There 's none within .
She never yet was foolish that was fair , For even her folly helped her to an heir .
My liberty .
O Cleopatra ! Thou art taken , Queen .
So could I too .
" Go to , thou art made , if thou desirest to be so -- "
Who meets us here ? My niece Plantagenet Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gloucester ? Now , for my life , she 's wandering to the Tower , On pure heart 's love , to greet the tender prince . -- Daughter , well met .
Borachio .
Oh , ' twill be admirable !
What meanest thou by that , Malvolio ?
Fortune is Bardolph 's foe and frowns on him , For he hath stolen a pax and hanged must he be . A damned death ! Let gallows gape for dog , let man go free , And let not hemp his windpipe suffocate . But Exeter hath given the doom of death For pax of little price . Therefore go speak -- the duke will hear thy voice -- And let not Bardolph 's vital thread be cut With edge of penny cord and vile reproach . Speak , Captain , for his life , and I will thee requite .
Bind fast his corky arms .
No , as I shall be saved .
Why , any thing , but to th ' purpose . You were sent for , and there is a kind of confession in your looks which your modesties have not craft enough to color . I know the good king and queen have sent for you .
I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind , for I protest her frown might kill me .
This cannot anger him . ' Twould anger him To raise a spirit in his mistress ' circle Of some strange nature , letting it there stand Till she had laid it and conjured it down . That were some spite . My invocation Is fair and honest . In his mistress ' name I conjure only but to raise up him .
Most certain .
It is much that the Moor should be more than reason . But if she be less than an honest woman , she is indeed more than I took her for .
O horror , horror , horror ! Tongue nor heart cannot conceive nor name thee !
Come , come , and sit you down . You shall not budge . You go not till I set you up a glass Where you may see the inmost part of you .
Was never widow had so dear a loss .
" Moved , " in good time . Let him that moved you hither Remove you hence . I knew you at the first You were a moveable .
The urging of that word " judgment " hath bred a kind of remorse in me .
Alas the day !
Let us seek out some desolate shade and there Weep our sad bosoms empty .
Ay , marry , must you . For you must understand he goes but to see a noise that he heard , and is to come again .
Thou dost give me flattering busses .
Save you , friend Cassio !
Curster than she ? Why , ' tis impossible .
There is a cliff , whose high and bending head Looks fearfully in the confined deep . Bring me but to the very brim of it , And I 'll repair the misery thou dost bear With something rich about me . From that place I shall no leading need .
You shall find me apt enough to that , sir , an you will give me occasion .
My masters , are you mad ? Or what are you ? Have you no wit , manners , nor honesty but to gabble like tinkers at this time of night ? Do you make an alehouse of my lady 's house , that you squeak out your coziers ' catches without any mitigation or remorse of voice ? Is there no respect of place , persons , nor time in you ?
Why , of mankind .
I beseech you , sir , pardon me . It is a letter from my brother that I have not all o'er-read . And for so much as I have perused , I find it not fit for your o'erlooking .
Your fortunes are alike .
A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king , and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm .
He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio .
Ay , do you fear it ? Then must I think you would not have it so .
I would not follow him then .
They do retire .
The Turkish preparation makes for Rhodes , So was I bid report here to the state By Signior Angelo .
To the Elephant .
Good Signior Angelo , you must excuse us all ; My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours . Say that I lingered with you at your shop To see the making of her carcanet , And that tomorrow you will bring it home . But here 's a villain that would face me down He met me on the mart , and that I beat him And charged him with a thousand marks in gold , And that I did deny my wife and house . -- Thou drunkard , thou , what didst thou mean by this ?
Be merry , be merry , my wife has all , For women are shrews , both short and tall . ' Tis merry in hall when beards wag all , And welcome merry Shrovetide . Be merry , be merry .
Know you before whom , sir ?
Season your admiration for a while With an attent ear , till I may deliver , Upon the witness of these gentlemen , This marvel to you .
No abuse ?
By my soul , nor I , And yet to satisfy this good old man I would bend under any heavy weight That he 'll enjoin me to .
Hold . Get you gone . Be strong and prosperous In this resolve . I 'll send a friar with speed To Mantua with my letters to thy lord .
As freely , son , as God did give her me .
There 's fennel for you , and columbines . --There 's rue for you , and here 's some for me . We may call it " herb of grace " o ' Sundays . --Oh , you must wear your rue with a difference . --There 's a daisy . I would give you some violets , but they withered all when my father died . They say he made a good end For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy --
Why , you are so fat , Sir John , that you must needs be out of all compass , out of all reasonable compass , Sir John .
Much deserved on his part , and equally remembered by Don Pedro . He hath borne himself beyond the promise of his age , doing in the figure of a lamb the feats of a lion . He hath indeed better bettered expectation than you must expect of me to tell you how .
Poor worm , thou art infected ! This visitation shows it .
Such news , my lord , as grieves me to report .
I hear it by the way ; but I will send . There 's not a one of them but in his house I keep a servant fee 'd . I will tomorrow -- And betimes I will -- to the weird sisters . More shall they speak , for now I am bent to know , By the worst means , the worst . For mine own good , All causes shall give way . I am in blood Stepped in so far that , should I wade no more , Returning were as tedious as go o'er . Strange things I have in head , that will to hand , Which must be acted ere they may be scanned .
Ay , my lord , an ' t please you .
God comfort thee ! Why dost thou smile so , and kiss thy hand so oft ?
Hail to your grace .
He must then to the Inns o ' Court shortly . I was once of Clement 's Inn , where I think they will talk of mad Shallow yet .
This is mere madness . And thus a while the fit will work on him . Anon , as patient as the female dove When that her golden couplets are disclosed , His silence will sit drooping .
Sir , I will answer any thing . But , I beseech you , If't be your pleasure and most wise consent that your fair daughter At this odd-even and dull watch o ' th ' night
I will none of your money .
How ? So far ?
Ere you were queen , ay , or your husband king , I was a packhorse in his great affairs , A weeder - out of his proud adversaries , A liberal rewarder of his friends . To royalize his blood , I spent mine own .
La you , an you speak ill of the devil , how he takes it at heart ! Pray God , he be not bewitched !
A second Daniel ! --A Daniel , Jew ! Now , infidel , I have you on the hip .
' A could never abide carnation . ' Twas a color he never liked .
Oh , wonderful !
The weird sisters , hand in hand , Posters of the sea and land , Thus do go about , about , Thrice to thine and thrice to mine And thrice again , to make up nine . Peace ! The charm 's wound up .
And I like Helen , till the Fates me kill .
Here , here , sir ! Here , sir !
Yes , verily , and in truth you shall take it , or I have another leek in my pocket , which you shall eat .
And may , through all the world ! ' Tis yours , and we , Your scutcheons and your signs of conquest , shall Hang in what place you please . Here , my good lord .
I do not know what " poetical " is . Is it honest in deed and word ? Is it a true thing ?
Ay , sir , I thank God .
There is a history in all men 's lives Figuring the nature of the times deceased , The which observed , a man may prophesy , With a near aim , of the main chance of things As yet not come to life , which in their seeds And weak beginnings lie intreasured . Such things become the hatch and brood of time , And by the necessary form of this ,
A great suspicion . Stay the friar too .
Most worthy sir , you therein throw away The absolute soldiership you have by land , Distract your army , which doth most consist Of war - marked footmen , leave unexecuted Your own renowned knowledge , quite forego The way which promises assurance , and Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard From firm security .
He did bewray his practice , and received This hurt you see striving to apprehend him .
Your lady , sir , your lady . And her sister By her is poisoned . She confesses it .
It is , my lord .
To go out of my dialect , which you discommend so much . I know , sir , I am no flatterer . He that beguiled you in a plain accent was a plain knave , which for my part I will not be , though I should win your displeasure to entreat me to ' t .
A King 's son ! If I do not beat thee out of thy kingdom with a dagger of lath , and drive all thy subjects afore thee like a flock of wild geese , I 'll never wear hair on my face more . You , Prince of Wales !
You look not well , Signor Antonio . You have too much respect upon the world . They lose it that do buy it with much care . Believe me , you are marvelously changed .
Nor did you nothing hear ?
What should I do ? I confess it is my shame to be so fond , but it is not in my virtue to amend it .
Pursue him , ho ! Go after .
' Tis almost five o'clock , cousin . ' Tis time you were ready . By my troth , I am exceeding ill . Heigh-ho !
I leave an arrant knave with your Worship , which I beseech your Worship to correct yourself , for the example of others . God keep your Worship ! I wish your Worship well . God restore you to health ! I humbly give you leave to depart , and if a merry meeting may be wished , God prohibit it ! -- Come , neighbor .
What should I do with him ? Dress him in my apparel and make him my waiting gentlewoman ? He that hath a beard is more than a youth , and he that hath no beard is less than a man ; and he that is more than a youth is not for me , and he that is less than a man , I am not for him . Therefore I will even take sixpence in earnest of the bearherd , and lead his apes into hell .
I have done my duty .
A gentler judgment vanished from his lips : Not body 's death , but body 's banishment .
Peter !
No epilogue , I pray you , for your play needs no excuse . Never excuse -- for when the players are all dead , there needs none to be blamed . Marry , if he that writ it had played Pyramus and hanged himself in Thisbe 's garter , it would have been a fine tragedy . And so it is , truly , and very notably discharged . But come , your Bergomask . Let your epilogue alone .
Go to , woman , Throw your vile guesses in the devil 's teeth From whence you have them . You are jealous now That this is from some mistress , some remembrance . No , in good troth , Bianca .
Come , come , go in with me . ' Tis with my mind As with the tide swelled up unto his height , That makes a still - stand , running neither way . Fain would I go to meet the Archbishop , But many thousand reasons hold me back . I will resolve for Scotland . There am I Till time and vantage crave my company .
Good night , good Captain Blunt .
I 'll do my best To woo your lady -- Yet , a barful strife -- Whoe'er I woo , myself would be his wife .
Are you my wife and will not call me " husband " ? My men should call me " lord . " I am your goodman .
Romeo , come forth . Come forth , thou fearful man . Affliction is enamoured of thy parts , And thou art wedded to calamity .
Fine apparition ! My quaint Ariel , Hark in thine ear .
What 's the matter with thee now ?
Now die , die , die , die , die .
It is no matter . Let no images Be hung with Caesar 's trophies . I 'll about And drive away the vulgar from the streets . So do you too , where you perceive them thick . These growing feathers plucked from Caesar 's wing Will make him fly an ordinary pitch , Who else would soar above the view of men And keep us all in servile fearfulness .
A pretty peat ! It is best Put finger in the eye , an she knew why .
Sir , He fell upon me ere admitted , then . Three kings I had newly feasted , and did want Of what I was i ' th ' morning . But next day I told him of myself , which was as much As to have asked him pardon . Let this fellow Be nothing of our strife . If we contend , Out of our question wipe him .
First let me talk with this philosopher . -- What is the cause of thunder ?
Come hither , good Volumnius . List a word .
I 'll bring you to him straight .
Good , i ' faith . Come , begin .
And then came Pyramus .
Will be here with mop and mow . Do you love me , master , no ?
I cannot tell .
He greets me well . --Your master , Pindarus , In his own change or by ill officers Hath given me some worthy cause to wish Things done , undone . But if he be at hand I shall be satisfied .
Round , even to faultiness .
They mean this night in Sardis to be quartered . The greater part , the horse in general , Are come with Cassius .
Our feast shall be much honored in your marriage .
Dost thou not suspect my place ? Dost thou not suspect my years ? Oh , that he were here to write me down an ass ! But masters , remember that I am an ass , though it be not written down , yet forget not that I am an ass . --No , thou villain , thou art full of piety , as shall be proved upon thee by good witness . I am a wise fellow and , which is more , an officer and , which is more , a householder and , which is more , as pretty a piece of flesh as any is in Messina , and one that knows the law , go to , and a rich fellow enough , go to , and a fellow that hath had losses , and one that hath two gowns and everything handsome about him . --Bring him away . --Oh , that I had been writ down an ass !
Why , how now , Count , wherefore are you sad ?
My good knave Eros , now thy captain is Even such a body . Here I am Antony , Yet cannot hold this visible shape , my knave . I made these wars for Egypt , and the Queen , Whose heart I thought I had , for she had mine -- Which whilst it was mine had annexed unto ' t A million more , now lost -- she , Eros , has Packed cards with Caesar and false - played my glory Unto an enemy 's triumph . Nay , weep not , gentle Eros . There is left us Ourselves to end ourselves .
I cannot tell . The world is grown so bad That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch . Since every jack became a gentleman , There 's many a gentle person made a jack .
By my troth , thou hast an open hand . These wise men that give fools money get themselves a good report -- after fourteen years ' purchase .
Let 's ha ' ' t , good Grumio .
Cieux , cousin Orleans .
With Cassio , mistress . Go to , charm your tongue .
That 's most certain , and with you . Next month with us .
Too late , good Diomed . Call my guard , I prithee .
Why , Petruchio is coming in a new hat and an old jerkin , a pair of old breeches thrice turned , a pair of boots that have been candle cases , one buckled , another laced ; an old rusty sword ta'en out of the town armory , with a broken hilt and chapeless ; with two broken points ; his horse hipped , with an old mothy saddle and stirrups of no kindred , besides possessed with the glanders and like to mose in the chine , troubled with the lampass , infected with the fashions , full of wingdalls , sped with spavins , rayed with yellows , past cure of the fives , stark spoiled with the staggers , begnawn with the bots , swayed in the back and shoulder - shotten , near - legged before and with a half - checked bit and a headstall of sheeps leather , which , being restrained to keep him from stumbling , hath been often burst , and now repaired with knots , one girth six times pieced , and a woman 's crupper of velour , which hath two letters for her name fairly set down in studs , and here and there pieced with packthread .
Hearty thanks . The bounty and the benison of heaven To boot and boot .
Then patiently hear my impatience .
That will I , should I die the hour after .
Very vilely in the morning , when he is sober , and most vilely in the afternoon , when he is drunk . When he is best he is a little worse than a man , and when he is worst he is little better than a beast . And the worst fall that ever fell , I hope I shall make shift to go without him .
I pray you , be content , ' tis but his humor . The business of the state does him offence , And he does chide with you .
Let me tell you , Cassius , you yourself Are much condemned to have an itching palm , To sell and mart your offices for gold To undeservers .
Which is one ?
To have a thousand with red burning spits Come hissing in upon ' em !
Before me , she 's a good wench .
Yes , madam . Yet I cannot choose but laugh To think it should leave crying and say " ay . " And yet , I warrant , it had upon its brow A bump as big as a young cockerel 's stone , A perilous knock , and it cried bitterly . " Yea , " quoth my husband , " Fall 'st upon thy face ? Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age . Wilt thou not , Jule ? " It stinted and said " ay . "
Peace , peace , Iras .
If I could bid the fifth welcome with so good a heart as I can bid the other four farewell , I should be glad of his approach . If he have the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil , I had rather he should shrive me than wive me . Come , Nerissa . -- Sirrah , go before . Whiles we shut the gates upon one wooer Another knocks at the door .
It is my wretched fortune .
God give me joy to wear it , for my heart is exceeding heavy .
Out , strumpet ! weep 'st thou for him to my face ?
Then , Richard , Earl of Cambridge , there is yours . --There yours , Lord Scroop of Masham . --And , sir knight , Grey of Northumberland , this same is yours . --Read them , and know I know your worthiness . --My Lord of Westmoreland and uncle Exeter , We will aboard tonight . --Why , how now , gentlemen ? What see you in those papers , that you lose So much complexion?- -Look you , how they change . Their cheeks are paper . --Why , what read you there That have so cowarded and chased your blood Out of appearance ?
He 's married , madam .
In every thing but in loving Benedick .
I do love nothing in the world so well as you . Is not that strange ?
Fare you well . Pray heaven I be deceived in you .
Vengeance , plague , death , confusion ! " Fiery " ? What " quality " ? Why , Gloucester , Gloucester , I 'd speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife .
Portia , art thou gone ?
To none of these , except it be the last , Namely , some love that drew him oft from home .
Not I. I tell thee what , Corporal Bardolph , I could tear her . I 'll be revenged of her .
The horsemen sit like fixed candlesticks With torch staves in their hand , and their poor jades Lob down their heads , dropping the hides and hips , The gum down - roping from their pale - dead eyes , And in their pale dull mouths the gemeled bit Lies foul with chawed grass , still and motionless . And their executors , the knavish crows , Fly o'er them all , impatient for their hour . Description cannot suit itself in words To demonstrate the life of such a battle In life so lifeless , as it shows itself .
Caesar , I go .
I 'll be with you straight . Go a little before .
By sea , by sea .
No , my lord .
Much good do you , scald knave , heartily . Nay , pray you throw none away . The skin is good for your broken coxcomb . When you take occasions to see leeks hereafter , I pray you , mock at ' em , that is all .
Why not , my lord ? If then they chanced to slack you , We could control them . If you will come to me -- For now I spy a danger --I entreat you To bring but five and twenty . To no more Will I give place or notice .
I prithee , good Prince Hal , help me to my horse , good king 's son .
Good sir , give me good fortune .
Now , Hal , what time of day is it , lad ?
' Tis true .
" Some achieve greatness -- "
The sight whereof I think you had from me , From Claudio and the Prince . But what 's your will ?
Are not you a coward ? Answer me to that -- and Poins there ?
There , if I grow , The harvest is your own .
I know him well . He is the brooch indeed And gem of all the nation .
I shall desire you of more acquaintance , good Master Cobweb . If I cut my finger , I shall make bold with you . -- Your name , honest gentleman ?
True , and they are to meddle with none but the Prince 's subjects . --You shall also make no noise in the streets ; for , for the watch to babble and to talk is most tolerable and not to be endured .
A ripe age . Is thy name William ?
A color that I fear you will die in , Sir John .
Obey you , love you , and most honor you . Why have my sisters husbands if they say They love you all ? Haply when I shall wed That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry Half my love with him , half my care and duty . Sure , I shall never marry like my sisters , To love my father all .
How now , my lord !
Ay , for the state , not for Antonio .
By my troth , cousin , I was not there .
Why , give it to my wife , and fetch your money .
" The plainsong " is most just , for humors do abound . Knocks go and come . God 's vassals drop and die , And sword and shield In bloody field Doth win immortal fame .
Forward , I pray , since we have come so far , And be it moon , or sun , or what you please . An if you please to call it a rush candle , Henceforth I vow it shall be so for me .
I took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to thank me . If it had been painful , I would not have come .
I will be even with thee , doubt it not .
Do you bandy looks with me , you rascal ?
Who brought it ?
Upon my knee , what doth your speech import ? I understand a fury in your words , But not the words .
With news the time 's with labor , and throws forth Each minute some .
Quarrel , sir ? No , sir .
We have lost best half of our affair .
Rest , rest , perturbed spirit ! --So , gentlemen , With all my love I do commend me to you , And what so poor a man as Hamlet is May do , to express his love and friending to you , God willing , shall not lack . Let us go in together , And still your fingers on your lips , I pray . The time is out of joint . O cursed spite , That ever I was born to set it right ! Nay , come , let 's go together .
Amen .
Go , fool , and whom thou keep 'st command .
Heaven secure him !
I thank you , sir , and pray you tell me this : Which of the two was daughter of the duke That here was at the wrestling ?
Courage , man . The hurt cannot be much .
La main ? Elle est appelee " de hand . "
Come , I 'll go in with you .
Lay out , lay out .
He waxes desperate with imagination .
My mind hath been as big as one of yours , My heart as great , my reason haply more , To bandy word for word and frown for frown . But now I see our lances are but straws , Our strength as weak , our weakness past compare , That seeming to be most which we indeed least are . Then vail your stomachs , for it is no boot , And place your hands below your husband 's foot : In token of which duty , if he please , My hand is ready , may it do him ease .
Yea , as sure as I have a thought or a soul .
Shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them ? What prodigal portion have I spent that I should come to such penury ?
Near and on speedy foot . The main descry Stands in the hourly thought .
You would say so , master , if your garments were thin . Your cake there is warm within ; you stand here in the cold . It would make a man mad as a buck to be so bought and sold .
Then art thou damned for keeping thy word with the devil .
They are but burs , cousin , thrown upon thee in holiday foolery . If we walk not in the trodden paths our very petticoats will catch them .
Can he be there in person ? ' Tis impossible , Strange that his power should be . Canidius , Our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land , And our twelve thousand horse . We 'll to our ship . Away , my Thetis !
By my troth , sir , no -- though it please you to be one of my friends .
Though it appear a little out of fashion , There is much care and valor in this Welshman .
I greet thy love Not with vain thanks but with acceptance bounteous , And will upon the instant put thee to ' t . Within these three days let me hear thee say That Cassio 's not alive .
It is to be all made of sighs and tears , And so am I for Phoebe .
The greatest note of it is his melancholy .
I cannot hope Caesar and Antony shall well greet together . His wife that 's dead did trespasses to Caesar . His brother warred upon him , although , I think , Not moved by Antony .
Even as men wracked upon a sand , that look to be washed off the next tide .
God 's blessing of your good heart , and so she is , by my troth .
Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal , And you must put me in your heart for friend , Sith you have heard , and with a knowing ear , That he which hath your noble father slain Pursued my life .
Alas , then she is drowned .
" If not , let me see thee a servant still . "
This would have seemed a period To such as love not sorrow , but another To amplify too much would make much more And top extremity . Whilst I was big in clamor came there in a man Who , having seen me in my worst estate , Shunned my abhorred society , but then , finding Who ' twas that so endured , with his strong arms He fastened on my neck , and bellowed out As he 'd burst heaven , threw him on my father , Told the most piteous tale of Lear and him That ever ear received -- which in recounting
Well , you have made a simple choice . You know not how to choose a man . Romeo ! No , not he , though his face be better than any man 's , yet his leg excels all men 's , and for a hand and a foot and a body , though they be not to be talked on , yet they are past compare . He is not the flower of courtesy , but , I 'll warrant him , as gentle as a lamb . Go thy ways , wench . Serve God . What , have you dined at home ?
Thus I conceive by him .
Poor Tom 's a - cold .
Yea , I thank your pretty sweet wit for it . But look you pray , all you that kiss my Lady Peace at home , that our armies join not in a hot day , for , by the Lord , I take but two shirts out with me , and I mean not to sweat extraordinarily . If it be a hot day and I brandish anything but a bottle , I would I might never spit white again . There is not a dangerous action can peep out his head but I am thrust upon it . Well , I cannot last ever .
E' en that .
So I hope . I was not born to die on Brutus ' sword .
Happy , in that we are not overhappy . On Fortune 's cap we are not the very button .
Why then , may you leave a casement of the great chamber window where we play open , and the moon may shine in at the casement .
I promise you , the effects he writes of succeed unhappily -- as of unnaturalness between the child and the parent , death , dearth , dissolutions of ancient amities , divisions in state , menaces and maledictions against king and nobles , needless diffidences , banishment of friends , dissipation of cohorts , nuptial breaches , and I know not what .
Full of vexation come I with complaint Against my child , my daughter Hermia . -- Stand forth , Demetrius . --My noble lord , This man hath my consent to marry her . -- Stand forth , Lysander . --And my gracious duke , This man hath bewitched the bosom of my child . -- Thou , thou , Lysander , thou hast given her rhymes , And interchanged love tokens with my child . Thou hast by moonlight at her window sung With feigning voice verses of feigning love , And stol'n the impression of her fantasy With bracelets of thy hair , rings , gauds , conceits , Knacks , trifles , nosegays , sweetmeats -- messengers Of strong prevailment in unhardened youth . With cunning hast thou filched my daughter 's heart , Turned her obedience To stubborn harshness . --And , my gracious duke , Be it so she will not here before your grace Consent to marry with Demetrius , I beg the ancient privilege of Athens . As she is mine , I may dispose of her -- Which shall be either to this gentleman Or to her death -- according to our law Immediately provided in that case .
Not an inch further . But hark you , Kate , Whither I go , thither shall you go too . Today will I set forth , tomorrow you . Will this content you , Kate ?
Ay , past all surgery .
Give it to me . What , is it in the case ?
And as I wooed for thee to obtain her , I will join with thee to disgrace her .
You have not been abed , then ?
Why , what did I ? I did nothing . I 'll go farther off .
By my troth , I will speak my conscience of the king . I think he would not wish himself anywhere but where he is .
I am very glad to see you . -- Good even , sir . --But what , in faith , make you from Wittenberg ?
Nor must not then be yielded to in this .
Your reason ?
My lord , your nobles , jealous of your absence , Seek through your camp to find you .
His name ! As if I knew not his name ! I have brought him up ever since he was three years old , and his name is Tranio .
I think it be .
Then thou art damned .
Why , sir , you know no house nor no such maid , Nor no such men as you have reckoned up , As Stephen Sly and old John Naps of Greece , And Peter Turph and Henry Pimpernell , And twenty more such names and men as these , Which never were , nor no man ever saw .
Believe me , sir , they butt together well .
I have neither the scholar 's melancholy , which is emulation ; nor the musician 's , which is fantastical ; nor the courtier 's , which is proud ; nor the soldier 's , which is ambitious ; nor the lawyer 's , which is politic ; nor the lady 's , which is nice ; nor the lover 's , which is all these , but it is a melancholy of mine own , compounded of many simples , extracted from many objects , and indeed the sundry contemplation of my travels , in which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous sadness .
That 's my fear . I pray you , have a continent forbearance till the speed of his rage goes slower . And as I say , retire with me to my lodging , from whence I will fitly bring you to hear my lord speak . Pray ye , go . There 's my key . If you do stir abroad , go armed .
And till the tears that she hath shed for thee Like envious floods o'errun her lovely face , She was the fairest creature in the world -- And yet she is inferior to none .
Truly then I fear you are damned both by father and mother . Thus when I shun Scylla your father , I fall into Charybdis your mother . Well , you are gone both ways .
Carry Master Silence to bed . --Master Shallow , my Lord Shallow , be what thou wilt . I am Fortune 's steward . Get on
' Tis well consented . Presently away , For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure . -- Come , lady , die to live . This wedding day Perhaps is but prolonged . Have patience and endure .
Now , good angels preserve the king !
Worthy Macbeth , we stay upon your leisure .
Pour in sow 's blood , that hath eaten Her nine farrow ; grease that 's sweaten From the murderer 's gibbet throw Into the flame .
I kiss the instrument of their pleasures .
The sin upon my head , dread sovereign , For in the Book of Numbers is it writ : " When the man dies , let the inheritance Descend unto the daughter . " Gracious lord , Stand for your own , unwind your bloody flag , Look back into your mighty ancestors . Go , my dread lord , to your great - grandsire 's tomb , From whom you claim . Invoke his warlike spirit And your great - uncle 's , Edward the Black Prince , Who on the French ground played a tragedy , Making defeat on the full power of France Whiles his most mighty father on a hill Stood smiling to behold his lion 's whelp Forage in blood of French nobility . O noble English , that could entertain With half their forces the full pride of France And let another half stand laughing by , All out of work and cold for action !
I beseech your Majesty , make up , Lest your retirement do amaze your friends .
Good madonna , why mournest thou ?
Eat , I pray you . Will you have some more sauce to your leek ? There is not enough leek to swear by .
Two props of virtue for a Christian prince , To stay him from the fall of vanity ; And , see , a book of prayer in his hand , True ornaments to know a holy man . -- Famous Plantagenet , most gracious prince , Lend favorable ears to our requests , And pardon us the interruption Of thy devotion and right Christian zeal .
Now , have you left pursuit ?
So they are . My spirits , as in a dream , are all bound up . My father 's loss , the weakness which I feel , The wrack of all my friends , nor this man 's threats , To whom I am subdued , are but light to me , Might I but through my prison once a day Behold this maid . All corners else o ' th ' earth Let liberty make use of . Space enough Have I in such a prison .
Will you go hunt , my lord ?
So will it , madam till I lie with you .
I would you did , sir . Yet in faith , if you did , it would not much approve me . Well , sir ?
Thou shalt get kings , though thou be none . So all hail , Macbeth and Banquo !
Well , everyone can master a grief but he that has it .
None but to desire your good company .
Whiles we are suitors to their throne , decays The thing we sue for .
We 'll lead you thither . --I pray you , will you take him by the arm ?
The moon is down . I have not heard the clock .
I have done my work ill , friends . Oh , make an end Of what I have begun !
It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard discourse , my lord .
Thou wrong 'st it more than tears with that report .
Stand close , I hear them coming .
Dost thou hear , my honest friend ?
Welcome from Egypt , sir .
Then lead the way , good father ; and heavens so shine That they may fairly note this act of mine .
This is the strangest fellow , brother John . -- Come , bring your luggage nobly on your back . For my part , if a lie may do thee grace , I 'll gild it with the happiest terms I have .
I will indeed no longer endure it , nor am I yet persuaded to put up in peace what already I have foolishly suffered .
For me , three thousand ducats .
They stand at the door , master . Bid them welcome hither .
O Corin , that thou knew 'st how I do love her !
Old , old , Master Shallow .
Thrice nobler than myself , Thou teachest me , O valiant Eros , what I should and thou couldst not . My Queen and Eros Have by their brave instruction got upon me A nobleness in record . But I will be A bridegroom in my death , and run into ' t As to a lover 's bed . Come then , and Eros , Thy master dies thy scholar . To do thus I learned of thee .
One side will mock another -- th ' other too .
Oh , I cry you mercy , you are the singer . I will say for you . It is " music with her silver sound " because musicians have no gold for sounding .
Swear , if thou darest .
How comes it ? Do they grow rusty ?
Bear with me , good boy , I am much forgetful . Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile , And touch thy instrument a strain or two ?
My lord , I would I might entreat your honor To scan this thing no farther . Leave it to time . Although ' tis fit that Cassio have his place , For sure , he fills it up with great ability , Yet , if you please to hold him off awhile , You shall by that perceive him and his means . Note if your lady strain his entertainment
Well , we shall see your bearing .
Let 's to bed , knight . Thou hadst need send for more money .
God save you , sir !
If we be not relieved within this hour , We must return to th ' court of guard . The night Is shiny , and they say we shall embattle By th ' second hour i ' th ' morn .
What part is that , my lord ?
No doubt , no doubt . O , ' tis a parlous boy , Bold , quick , ingenious , forward , capable . He is all the mother 's , from the top to toe .
Come on , come on . You are pictures out of door , bells in your parlors , wild - cats in your kitchens , saints in your injuries , devils being offended , players in your housewifery , and housewives in your beds .
" D' elbow . " Je m'en fais la repetition de tous les mots que vous m'avez appris des a present .
A heavier task could not have been imposed Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable ; Yet , that the world may witness that my end Was wrought by nature , not by vile offense , I 'll utter what my sorrow gives me leave . In Syracusa was I born , and wed Unto a woman happy but for me , And by me , had not our hap been bad . With her I lived in joy . Our wealth increased By prosperous voyages I often made To Epidamnum , till my factor 's death And the great care of goods at random left Drew me from kind embracements of my spouse ; From whom my absence was not six months old Before herself - almost at fainting under The pleasing punishment that women bear - Had made provision for her following me And soon and safe arrived where I was . There had she not been long but she became A joyful mother of two goodly sons , And , which was strange , the one so like the other As could not be distinguished but by names . That very hour , and in the selfsame inn , A meaner woman was delivered Of such a burden , male twins , both alike . Those , for their parents were exceeding poor , I bought and brought up to attend my sons . My wife , not meanly proud of two such boys , Made daily motions for our home return . Unwilling , I agreed . Alas , too soon We came aboard .
Never any did so , though very many have been beside their wit . I will bid thee draw , as we do the minstrels : draw to pleasure us .
So please you , for I never heard it yet , Yet heard too much of Phoebe 's cruelty .
' Tis far off , And rather like a dream than an assurance That my remembrance warrants . Had I not Four or five women once that tended me ?
Sir , to satisfy you in what I have said , Stand by and mark the manner of his teaching . They stand aside
No die , but an ace for him , for he is but one .
I would not by my will have troubled you , But , since you make your pleasure of your pains , I will no further chide you .
Lady !
It is a man 's office , but not yours .
Ply Desdemona well , and you are sure on ' t . Now if this suit lay in Bianca 's power How quickly should you speed !
Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell .
Why , One fair daughter and no more , The which he loved passing well .
What 's your name , friend ?
He is called Aunchient Pistol .
Be not afeard . The isle is full of noises , Sounds , and sweet airs that give delight and hurt not . Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments Will hum about mine ears , and sometime voices That , if I then had waked after long sleep , Will make me sleep again . And then , in dreaming , The clouds methought would open and show riches Ready to drop upon me , that when I waked I cried to dream again .
It is the more like to be feigned . I pray you , keep it in . I heard you were saucy at my gates and allowed your approach rather to wonder at you than to hear you . If you be not mad , be gone . If you have reason , be brief . ' Tis not that time of moon with me to make one in so skipping a dialogue .
How smooth and even they do bear themselves , As if allegiance in their bosoms sat Crowned with faith and constant loyalty .
Go thou . I 'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs To apply to his bleeding face . Now heaven help him !
Even so . --Cover their faces .
Is ' t possible ?
Of very reverend reputation , sir , Of credit infinite , highly beloved , Second to none that lives here in the city . His word might bear my wealth at any time .
I commend me to thee , I commend thee , and I leave thee . Be not too familiar with Poins , for he misuses thy favors so much that he swears thou art to marry his sister
Stand close . This is the same Athenian .
Who was the thane lives yet , But under heavy judgment bears that life Which he deserves to lose . Whether he was combined With those of Norway , or did line the rebel With hidden help and vantage , or that with both He labored in his country 's wrack , I know not ; But treasons capital , confessed and proved , Have overthrown him .
Oh , he sits high in all the people 's hearts , And that which would appear offense in us , His countenance , like richest alchemy , Will change to virtue and to worthiness .
What say you ?
Reft of his brother , but retained his name - Might bear him company in the quest of him , Whom whilst I laboured of a love to see , I hazarded the loss of whom I loved . Five summers have I spent in farthest Greece , Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia , And , coasting homeward , came to Ephesus , Hopeless to find , yet loath to leave unsought Or that or any place that harbors men . But here must end the story of my life ; And happy were I in my timely death Could all my travels warrant me they live .
Mine host Pistol , you must come to my master and your hostess . He is very sick and would to bed . --Good Bardolph , put thy face between his sheets , and do the office of a warming - pan . Faith , he 's very ill .
And yet how nature , erring from itself --
Marry , my uncle Clarence ' angry ghost . My grandam told me he was murdered there .
I prithee , lend me thy lantern to see my gelding in the stable .
I , by attorney , bless thee from thy mother , Who prays continually for Richmond 's good . So much for that . The silent hours steal on , And flaky darkness breaks within the east . In brief , for so the season bids us be , Prepare thy battle early in the morning , And put thy fortune to the arbitrament Of bloody strokes and mortal - staring war . I , as I may -- that which I would I cannot , -- With best advantage will deceive the time , And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms . But on thy side I may not be too forward , Lest , being seen , thy brother , tender George , Be executed in his father 's sight . Farewell . The leisure and the fearful time Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love And ample interchange of sweet discourse , Which so - long - sundered friends should dwell upon . God give us leisure for these rites of love ! Once more , adieu . Be valiant , and speed well .
Sport royal , I warrant you . I know my physic will work with him . I will plant you two , and let the fool make a third , where he shall find the letter . Observe his construction of it . For this night , to bed , and dream on the event . Farewell .
" Follow " ? Nay , I 'll go with thee , cheek by jowl .
Get you to your lord . I cannot love him . Let him send no more -- Unless perchance you come to me again To tell me how he takes it . Fare you well . I thank you for your pains . Spend this for me .
What , my old worshipful old master ? Yes , marry , sir . See where he looks out of the window .
Why , yet it lives there unchecked that Antonio hath a ship of rich lading wracked on the narrow seas . The Goodwins I think they call the place -- a very dangerous flat , and fatal , where the carcasses of many a tall ship lie buried , as they say , if my gossip report be an honest woman of her word .
Doth Fortune play the huswife with me now ? News have I that my Nell is dead i ' th ' spital Of a malady of France , And there my rendezvous is quite cut off . Old I do wax , and from my weary limbs Honor is cudgeled . Well , bawd I 'll turn , And something lean to cutpurse of quick hand . To England will I steal , and there I 'll steal . And patches will I get unto these cudgeled scars , And swear I got them in the Gallia wars .
I will confess to you that I love him .
No , pray thee , good Meg , I 'll wear this .
Who comes here ?
They say Edgar , his banished son , is with the Earl of Kent in Germany .
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the city ? Are they so followed ?
Now , good sweet Nurse - - O Lord , why look 'st thou sad ? Though news be sad , yet tell them merrily . If good , thou shamest the music of sweet news By playing it to me with so sour a face .
To none but thee , no more but when to thee . If thou dost play with him at any game , Thou art sure to lose , and of that natural luck He beats thee ' gainst the odds . Thy luster thickens When he shines by . I say again , thy spirit Is all afraid to govern thee near him , But , he away , ' tis noble .
Go waken Juliet . Go and trim her up . I 'll go and chat with Paris . Hie , make haste , Make haste . The bridegroom he is come already . Make haste , I say .
Well have you heard , but something hard of hearing . They call me Katherine that do talk of me .
Well , I 'll end the song . --Sirs , cover the while ; the duke will drink under this tree . --He hath been all this day to look you .
Most subject is the fattest soil to weeds , And he , the noble image of my youth , Is overspread with them ; therefore my grief Stretches itself beyond the hour of death . The blood weeps from my heart when I do shape , In forms imaginary , th ' unguided days And rotten times that you shall look upon When I am sleeping with my ancestors . For when his headstrong riot hath no curb , When rage and hot blood are his counsellors , When means and lavish manners meet together , O , with what wings shall his affections fly Towards fronting peril and opposed decay !
A friend .
Romeo , my cousin Romeo ! Romeo !
Thus out of season , threading dark-eyed night . Occasions , noble Gloucester , of some poise , Wherein we must have use of your advice : Our father he hath writ , so hath our sister , Of differences , which I least thought it fit To answer from our home . The several messengers From hence attend dispatch . Our good old friend , Lay comforts to your bosom , and bestow Your needful counsel to our business , Which craves the instant use .
Approach , there ! Ah , you kite ! --Now , gods and devils ! Authority melts from me . Of late , when I cried " Ho ! " Like boys unto a muss kings would start forth And cry , " Your will ? " Have you no ears ? I am Antony yet .
Trebonius doth desire you to o'er-read , At your best leisure , this his humble suit .
No , my good lord , it is more pleasing stuff .
The reason ?
A flourish , trumpets ! Strike alarum , drums ! Let not the heavens hear these telltale women Rail on the Lord 's anointed . Strike , I say !
That handkerchief Which I so loved and gave thee , thou gav 'st To Cassio .
Richard , thy wife , that wretched Anne thy wife , That never slept a quiet hour with thee , Now fills thy sleep with perturbations . Tomorrow , in the battle , think on me , And fall thy edgeless sword : Despair and die ! Thou quiet soul , sleep thou a quiet sleep . Dream of success and happy victory . Thy adversary 's wife doth pray for thee .
Sir , I am a true laborer . I earn that I eat , get that I wear , owe no man hate , envy no man 's happiness , glad of other men 's good , content with my harm , and the greatest of my pride is to see my ewes graze and my lambs suck .
You tell us the manner of the wrestling .
Here comes Ancient Pistol and his wife . Good corporal , be patient here . --How now , mine host Pistol ?
Nay , but Beatrice - -
Meet me and Gratiano At Gratiano 's lodging some hour hence .
Never to speak of this that you have seen . Swear by my sword .
Nothing .
Hark thee , Dardanius .
There is occasions and causes why and wherefore in all things . I will tell you as my friend , Captain Gower . The rascally , scald , beggarly , lousy , pragging knave , Pistol , which you and yourself and all the world know to be no petter than a fellow , look you now , of no merits , he is come to me and prings me pread and salt yesterday , look you , and bid me eat my leek . It was in place where I could not breed no contention with him , but I will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till I see him once again , and then I will tell him a little piece of my desires .
My husband !
He longs to eat the English .
How fares my noble lord ?
I will no further offend you than becomes me for my good .
You 've strange serpents there ?
And so is now , or was so very late . For but a month ago I went from hence , And then ' twas fresh in murmur -- as , you know , What great ones do the less will prattle of -- That he did seek the love of fair Olivia .
Nurse !
They sit conferring by the parlor fire .
Very well .
It appears so by the story .
Speak softly . Yonder , as I think , he walks .
Good sir , why do you start and seem to fear Things that do sound so fair ? I ' th ' name of truth , Are ye fantastical , or that indeed Which outwardly ye show ? My noble partner You greet with present grace and great prediction Of noble having and of royal hope , That he seems rapt withal . To me you speak not . If you can look into the seeds of time And say which grain will grow and which will not , Speak , then , to me , who neither beg nor fear Your favors nor your hate .
But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion .
Good morrow , both .
If I speak true ! If hollowly , invert What best is boded me to mischief ! I Beyond all limit of what else i ' th ' world Do love , prize , honor you .
Alas , what does this gentleman conceive ? How do you , madam ? How do you , my good lady ?
The heads of the maids ?
Good gentlemen , let me have leave to speak . ' Tis proper I obey him , but not now . Perchance , Iago , I will ne'er go home .
I will but teach them to sing and restore them to the owner .
Good night , good brother .
So much for this , sir . Now shall you see the other . You do remember all the circumstance ?
Sir John , God save you .
Quoth my master . " I know , " quoth he , " no house , no wife , no mistress . " So that my errand , due unto my tongue , I thank him , I bare home upon my shoulders , For , in conclusion , he did beat me there .
We will , fair queen , up to the mountain 's top , And mark the musical confusion Of hounds and echo in conjunction .
Why , sir , a carpenter .
Is yonder the man ?
Why , because you have been so lewd and so much engraffed to Falstaff .
I well allow the occasion of our arms , But gladly would be better satisfied How in our means we should advance ourselves To look with forehead bold and big enough Upon the power and puissance of the King .
Bid me farewell .
Oh ho , oh ho ! Would ' t had been done ! Thou didst prevent me . I had peopled else This isle with Calibans .
You are too officious In her behalf that scorns your services . Let her alone . Speak not of Helena . Take not her part . For if thou dost intend Never so little show of love to her , Thou shalt aby it .
What trumpet is that same ?
A servant that he bred , thrilled with remorse , Opposed against the act , bending his sword To his great master ; who thereat enraged Flew on him and amongst them felled him dead -- But not without that harmful stroke , which since Hath plucked him after .
Between who ?
Queen Mab , what 's she
Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from her wheel , that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally .
Wit , an ' t be thy will , put me into good fooling ! Those wits , that think they have thee , do very oft prove fools . And I , that am sure I lack thee , may pass for a wise man . For what says Quinapalus ? " Better a witty fool , than a foolish wit . "
You must not , sir , mistake my niece . There is a kind of merry war betwixt Signor Benedick and her . They never meet but there 's a skirmish of wit between them .
He that bereft thee , lady , of thy husband Did it to help thee to a better husband .
Without , my lord ; guarded , to know your pleasure .
Warwick ! Gloucester ! Clarence !
Wisely and slow . They stumble that run fast .
Do , most dear Queen .
You may , sir . ' Tis a point of wisdom . Fare you well .
She 's dead , deceased , she 's dead . Alack the day !
Ay , Nurse , what of that ? Both with an R.
O , my lord , my lord , the Sheriff with a most monstrous watch is at the door .
Think you my uncle did dissemble , grandam ?
Therein the patient Must minister to himself .
He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit .
He 'd sow ' t with nettle seed .
Mine was not bridled .
Your worship was wont to tell me that I could do nothing without bidding .
Do not presume too much upon my love . I may do that I shall be sorry for .
He is already named and gone to Scone To be invested .
O heaven , O earth , bear witness to this sound And crown what I profess with kind event
I understand thy kisses and thou mine , And that 's a feeling disputation ; But I will never be a truant , love , Till I have learned thy language ; for thy tongue Makes Welsh as sweet as ditties highly penned , Sung by a fair queen in a summer 's bower , With ravishing division , to her lute .
Dissembling villain , thou speak 'st false in both .
It cannot be , my lord . Rumor doth double , like the voice and echo , The numbers of the feared . Please it your Grace To go to bed . Upon my soul , my lord , The powers that you already have sent forth Shall bring this prize in very easily . To comfort you the more , I have received A certain instance that Glendower is dead . Your Majesty hath been this fortnight ill , And these unseasoned hours perforce must add Unto your sickness .
O heavy deed ! It had been so with us , had we been there . His liberty is full of threats to all -- To you yourself , to us , to everyone . Alas , how shall this bloody deed be answered ? It will be laid to us , whose providence Should have kept short , restrained and out of haunt , This mad young man . But so much was our love , We would not understand what was most fit ,
This quarry cries on havoc . O proud death , What feast is toward in thine eternal cell , That thou so many princes at a shot So bloodily hast struck ?
I kissed thee ere I killed thee . No way but this , Killing myself , to die upon a kiss .
Propose the oath , my lord .
Hark you , the king is coming , and I must speak with him from the pridge . --God pless your Majesty .
Nay , that 's not so .
My liege , I did deny no prisoners . But I remember , when the fight was done , When I was dry with rage and extreme toil , Breathless and faint , leaning upon my sword , Came there a certain lord , neat , and trimly dressed , Fresh as a bridegroom , and his chin new reaped Showed like a stubble land at harvest home . He was perfumed like a milliner , And ' twixt his finger and his thumb he held A pouncet box , which ever and anon He gave his nose and took ' t away again , Who therewith angry , when it next came there , Took it in snuff ; and still he smiled and talked . And as the soldiers bore dead bodies by , He called them untaught knaves , unmannerly , To bring a slovenly unhandsome corse Betwixt the wind and his nobility . With many holiday and lady terms He questioned me ; amongst the rest demanded My prisoners in your Majesty 's behalf . I then , all smarting with my wounds being cold , To be so pestered with a popinjay , Out of my grief and my impatience Answered neglectingly I know not what -- He should , or he should not ; for he made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet And talk so like a waiting - gentlewoman
And so am I.
A light , a light !
Thou ' rt mad to say it . Is not thy master with him , who , were ' t so , Would have informed for preparation ?
I must , she 'll rail in the street else .
God bless you , sir .
And , hark ! They shout for joy .
Nor the soles of her shoes ?
Those of his chamber , as it seemed , had done ' t . Their hands and faces were all badged with blood . So were their daggers , which unwiped we found Upon their pillows . They stared , and were distracted . No man 's life was to be trusted with them .
' Tis the infirmity of his age . Yet he hath ever but slenderly known himself .
There 's rosemary , that 's for remembrance . Pray you , love , remember . And there is pansies , that 's for thoughts .
And here my mistress . Would that he were gone !
What 's that ?
Thus doth he force the swords of wicked men To turn their own points in their masters ' bosoms . Thus Margaret 's curse falls heavy upon my neck : " When he , " quoth she , " shall split thy heart with sorrow , Remember Margaret was a prophetess . " -- Come , lead me , officers , to the block of shame . Wrong hath but wrong , and blame the due of blame .
Alack , alack , Edmund , I like not this unnatural dealing . When I desire their leave that I might pity him , they took from me the use of mine own house , charged me on pain of their perpetual displeasure neither to speak of him , entreat for him , nor any way sustain him .
That of an hour 's age doth hiss the speaker . Each minute teems a new one .
Nay , we will slink away in supper time , Disguise us at my lodging , and return , All in an hour .
I am glad he 's come , howsoe'er he comes .
But all the story of the night told over , And all their minds transfigured so together , More witnesseth than fancy 's images And grows to something of great constancy , But , howsoever , strange and admirable .
Oh , stay but till then !
Three thousand ducats , well .
She died , my lord , but whiles her slander lived .
There is none of my uncle' s marks upon you . He taught me how to know a man in love , in which cage of rushes I am sure you are not prisoner .
Will you hoist sail , sir ? Here lies your way .
Before my God , I might not this believe Without the sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes .
Have you the lion 's part written ? Pray you , if it be , give it me , for I am slow of study .
I am right glad that he 's so out of hope . Do not for one repulse forego the purpose That you resolved t ' effect .
I do not know you so good a man as myself . So Chrish save me , I will cut off your head .
But will my Rosalind do so ?
Oh , behold , The riches of the ship is come on shore ! You men of Cyprus , let her have your knees . Hail to thee , lady , and the grace of heaven , Before , behind thee , and on every hand , Enwheel thee round !
Good cousin , be advised . Stir not tonight .
I thank you ; and be blessed for your good comfort .
A trifle , some eightpenny matter .
Francis !
Have I not reason , beldams as you are ? Saucy and overbold , how did you dare To trade and traffic with Macbeth In riddles and affairs of death , And I , the mistress of your charms , The close contriver of all harms , Was never called to bear my part , Or show the glory of our art ? And , which is worse , all you have done Hath been but for a wayward son , Spiteful and wrathful , who , as others do , Loves for his own ends , not for you . But make amends now . Get you gone , And at the pit of Acheron Meet me i ' th ' morning . Thither he Will come to know his destiny . Your vessels and your spells provide , Your charms and everything beside . I am for the air . This night I 'll spend Unto a dismal and a fatal end . Great business must be wrought ere noon . Upon the corner of the moon There hangs a vap'rous drop profound . I 'll catch it ere it come to ground . And that distilled by magic sleights Shall raise such artificial sprites As by the strength of their illusion Shall draw him on to his confusion .
Well , Syracusian , say in brief the cause Why thou dep-artedst from thy native home And for what cause thou camest to Ephesus .
Come , gentlemen , Let us consult upon tomorrow 's business Into my tent . The dew is raw and cold .
I would not , Cassius . Yet I love him well . But wherefore do you hold me here so long ? What is it that you would impart to me ? If it be aught toward the general good , Set honor in one eye and death i ' th ' other , And I will look on both indifferently , For let the gods so speed me as I love The name of honor more than I fear death .
Inquire the Jew 's house out . Give him this deed , And let him sign it . We 'll away tonight , And be a day before our husbands home . This deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo .
No , by mine honor , madam .
You are too senseless obstinate , my lord , Too ceremonious and traditional . Weigh it but with the grossness of this age , You break not sanctuary in seizing him . The benefit thereof is always granted To those whose dealings have deserved the place And those who have the wit to claim the place . This prince hath neither claimed it nor deserved it And therefore , in mine opinion , cannot have it . Then taking him from thence that is not there , You break no privilege nor charter there . Oft have I heard of sanctuary men , But sanctuary children , ne'er till now .
They are so .
Ay , my good lord .
And that is Claudio . I know him by his bearing .
I am thy father 's spirit , Doomed for a certain term to walk the night And for the day confined to fast in fires , Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature Are burnt and purged away . But that I am forbid To tell the secrets of my prison house , I could a tale unfold whose lightest word Would harrow up thy soul , freeze thy young blood ,
Madam , I have a touch of your condition , Which cannot brook the accent of reproof .
To rain upon remembrance with mine eyes That it may grow and sprout as high as heaven For recordation to my noble husband .
By my troth , I kiss thee with a most constant heart .
These be fine things , an if they be not sprites . That 's a brave god and bears celestial liquor . I will kneel to him .
Dost thou know me , fellow ?
Monsieur Cobweb , good monsieur , get you your weapons in your hand and kill me a red - hipped humble - bee on the top of a thistle . And , good monsieur , bring me the honey bag . Do not fret yourself too much in the action , monsieur . And good monsieur , have a care the honey bag break not . I would be loath to have you overflown with a honey bag , signor .
Nathaniel 's coat , sir , was not fully made , And Gabriel 's pumps were all unpinked i ' th ' heel . There was no link to color Peter 's hat , And Walter 's dagger was not come from sheathing . There were none fine but Adam , Rafe , and Gregory . The rest were ragged , old , and beggarly . Yet , as they are , here are they come to meet you .
Why do you cross me in this exigent ?
Neither my husband nor the slave returned That in such haste I sent to seek his master ? Sure , Luciana , it is two o'clock .
Sweet Hero , now thy image doth appear In the rare semblance that I loved it first .
What was he that you followed with your sword ? What had he done to you ?
I am doubtful that you have been conjunct And bosomed with her as far as we call hers .
' Tis a strange serpent .
Were not you even now with the Countess Olivia ?
Your Grace does me as great honors as can be desired in the hearts of his subjects . I would fain see the man that has but two legs that shall find himself aggrieved at this glove , that is all ; but I would fain see it once , an please God of his Grace that I might see .
Orsino , noble sir , Be pleased that I shake off these names you give me . Antonio never yet was thief or pirate , Though , I confess , on base and ground enough , Orsino 's enemy . A witchcraft drew me hither . That most ingrateful boy there by your side From the rude sea 's enraged and foamy mouth Did I redeem . A wreck past hope he was . His life I gave him and did thereto add My love , without retention or restraint , All his in dedication . For his sake Did I expose myself , pure for his love , Into the danger of this adverse town , Drew to defend him when he was beset , Where being apprehended , his false cunning , Taught him to face me out of his acquaintance , And grew a twenty - years - removed thing While one would wink , denied me mine own purse , Which I had recommended to his use Not half an hour before .
My devotion --
God grant him health . Did you confer with him ?
Before the game is afoot thou still let 'st slip .
So smile the heavens upon this holy act That after-hours with sorrow chide us not .
Last night of all , When yond same star that 's westward from the pole Had made his course t ' illume that part of heaven Where now it burns , Marcellus and myself , The bell then beating one --
I am undone by his going . I warrant you , he 's an infinitive thing upon my score . Good Master Fang , hold him sure . Good Master Snare , let him not ' scape . He comes continuantly to Pie Corner , saving your manhoods , to buy a saddle , and he is indited to dinner to the Lubber 's Head in Lumbert Street , to Master Smooth 's the silkman . I pray you , since my exion is entered , and my case so openly known to the world , let him be brought in to his answer . A hundred mark is a long one for a poor lone woman to bear , and I have borne , and borne , and borne , and have been fubbed off , and fubbed off , and fubbed off from this day to that day , that it is a shame to be thought on . There is no honesty in such dealing , unless a woman should be made an ass and a beast to bear every knave 's wrong . Yonder he comes , and that errant malmsey - nose knave , Bardolph , with him . Do your offices , do your offices , Master Fang and Master Snare , do me , do me , do me your offices .
Know 'st thou the youth that spoke to me erewhile ?
Thus have I , Wall , my part discharged so . And , being done , thus Wall away doth go .
Good .
Hold thy desperate hand . Art thou a man ? Thy form cries out thou art . Thy tears are womanish . Thy wild acts denote The unreasonable fury of a beast . Unseemly woman in a seeming man , And ill - beseeming beast in seeming both ! Thou hast amazed me . By my holy order , I thought thy disposition better tempered . Hast thou slain Tybalt ? Wilt thou slay thyself , And slay thy lady that in thy life lives By doing damned hate upon thyself ? Why rail 'st thou on thy birth , the heaven , and earth ? Since birth and heaven and earth , all three do meet In thee at once , which thou at once wouldst lose ? Fie , fie , thou shamest thy shape , thy love , thy wit , Which , like a usurer , abound 'st in all And usest none in that true use indeed Which should bedeck thy shape , thy love , thy wit . Thy noble shape is but a form of wax , Digressing from the valor of a man ; Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury , Killing that love which thou hast vowed to cherish ; Thy wit , that ornament to shape and love , Misshapen in the conduct of them both , Like powder in a skill - less soldier 's flask , Is set afire by thine own ignorance ; And thou dismembered with thine own defence . What , rouse thee , man ! Thy Juliet is alive , For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead -- There art thou happy . Tybalt would kill thee , But thou slew 'st Tybalt -- there art thou happy . The law that threatened death becomes thy friend And turns it to exile -- there art thou happy . A pack of blessings light upon thy back , Happiness courts thee in her best array ,
A glooming peace this morning with it brings . The sun , for sorrow , will not show his head . Go hence , to have more talk of these sad things . Some shall be pardoned , and some punished . For never was a story of more woe Than this of Juliet and her Romeo .
Not this , by no means , that I bid you do -- Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed , Pinch wanton on your cheek , call you his mouse , And let him , for a pair of reechy kisses Or paddling in your neck with his damned fingers , Make you to ravel all this matter out : That I essentially am not in madness But mad in craft . ' Twere good you let him know , For who that 's but a queen , fair , sober , wise , Would from a paddock , from a bat , a gib , Such dear concernings hide ? Who would do so ? No , in despite of sense and secrecy , Unpeg the basket on the house 's top . Let the birds fly , and like the famous ape , To try conclusions , in the basket creep And break your own neck down .
Gallants , I am not as I have been .
My lord ?
Now , my masters , happy man be his dole , say I. Every man to his business .
Thou hast hit it . Come , sit on me .
And why should Caesar be a tyrant then ? Poor man ! I know he would not be a wolf But that he sees the Romans are but sheep . He were no lion were not Romans hinds . Those that with haste will make a mighty fire Begin it with weak straws . What trash is Rome , What rubbish and what offal , when it serves For the base matter to illuminate So vile a thing as Caesar ! But , O grief , Where hast thou led me ? I perhaps speak this Before a willing bondman . Then I know My answer must be made . But I am armed , And dangers are to me indifferent .
No more , no more ! Worse than the sun in March This praise doth nourish agues . Let them come . They come like sacrifices in their trim , And to the fire - eyed maid of smoky war All hot and bleeding will we offer them . The mailed Mars shall on his altar sit Up to the ears in blood . I am on fire To hear this rich reprisal is so nigh And yet not ours . Come , let me taste my horse , Who is to bear me like a thunderbolt Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales . Harry to Harry shall , hot horse to horse , Meet and ne'er part till one drop down a corse . O , that Glendower were come !
Will you sup with me , Master Gower ?
He prays you to save his life . He is a gentleman of a good house , and for his ransom he will give you two hundred crowns .
Your name , sir , truly .
" Cheater , " call you him ? I will bar no honest man my house , nor no cheater , but I do not love swaggering . By my troth , I am the worse when one says " swagger . " Feel , masters , how I shake ; look you , I warrant you .
So he doth you , my lord , and said this other day you owed him a thousand pound .
And ' tis no little reason bids us speed To save our heads by raising of a head , For , bear ourselves as even as we can , The King will always think him in our debt , And think we think ourselves unsatisfied , Till he hath found a time to pay us home . And see already how he doth begin To make us strangers to his looks of love .
Know 'st thou Fluellen ?
Come on . Since the youth will not be entreated , his own peril on his forwardness .
It cannot be , for he bewept my fortune , And hugged me in his arms , and swore with sobs That he would labor my delivery .
I will drop in his way some obscure epistles of love , wherein by the color of his beard , the shape of his leg , the manner of his gait , the expressure of his eye , forehead , and complexion , he shall find himself most feelingly personated .
I saw him once . He was a goodly king .
No , no , no , no ! Come , let 's away to prison . We two alone will sing like birds i ' th ' cage . When thou dost ask me blessing , I 'll kneel down And ask of thee forgiveness . So we 'll live , And pray , and sing , and tell old tales , and laugh At gilded butterflies , and hear poor rogues Talk of court news , and we 'll talk with them too -- Who loses and who wins , who 's in , who 's out -- And take upon 's the mystery of things As if we were God 's spies . And we 'll wear out In a walled prison packs and sects of great ones That ebb and flow by the moon .
Hamlet , this deed , for thine especial safety -- Which we do tender as we dearly grieve For that which thou hast done -- must send thee hence With fiery quickness . Therefore prepare thyself . The bark is ready and the wind at help , Th ' associates tend , and everything is bent For England .
Tomorrow , then , I judge a happy day .
Then I salute you with this royal title : Long live Richard , England 's worthy king !
I thank you , valiant Cassio . What tidings can you tell me of my lord ?
You lie , hostess . Bardolph was shaved and lost many a hair ; and I 'll be sworn my pocket was picked . Go to , you are a woman , go .
Seafaring men , sir . They say they have letters for you .
' Tis no matter . Let it go . There 's few or none will entertain it .
The finch , the sparrow , and the lark , The plainsong cuckoo gray , Whose note full many a man doth mark And dares not answer " Nay " --
If you thrive well , bring them to Baynard 's Castle , Where you shall find me well accompanied With reverend fathers and well - learned bishops .
She never could away with me .
O most dear mistress , The sun will set before I shall discharge What I must strive to do .
Where are you , Sir John ? Come , come , come , off with your boots . --Give me your hand , Master Bardolph .
Made she no verbal question ?
Farewell ! I will omit no opportunity That may convey my greetings , love , to thee .
A thousand pound , Hal ? A million . Thy love is worth a million ; thou owest me thy love .
I would try , if I could cry " hem " and have him .
My brother Gloucester 's voice . --Ay , I know thy errand . I will go with thee . The day , my friends , and all things stay for me .
Fellow , I know thee .
The devil himself could not pronounce a title More hateful to mine ear .
Let Rome be thus informed .
It might , my lord .
Thou sayest true , hostess , and he slanders thee most grossly .
You minion , you , are these your customers ? Did this companion with the saffron face Revel and feast it at my house today Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut And I denied to enter in my house ?
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel . Wert thou as young as I , Juliet thy love , An hour but married , Tybalt murdered , Doting like me , and like me banished , Then mightst thou speak , then mightst thou tear thy hair And fall upon the ground , as I do now , Taking the measure of an unmade grave .
The trumpet sounds . Be copious in exclaims .
' Tis the time 's plague when madmen lead the blind . Do as I bid thee . Or rather , do thy pleasure . Above the rest , be gone .
A kind good night to all !
God and our innocence defend and guard us !
For us and for our tragedy , Here stooping to your clemency , We beg your hearing patiently .
Give me your hands all over , one by one .
The moon ? The sun ! It is not moonlight now .
Romeo ! -- Alack , alack , what blood is this , which stains The stony entrance of the sepulcher ? What mean these masterless and gory swords To lie discolored by this place of peace ? Romeo ! O , pale ! --Who else ? What , Paris too ? And steeped in blood?- -Ah , what an unkind hour Is guilty of this lamentable chance ! The lady stirs .
By mine honor , half - drunk . What is he at the gate , cousin ?
Why , that is nothing . For I tell you , father , I am as peremptory as she proud - minded; And where two raging fires meet together , They do consume the thing that feeds their fury . Though little fire grows great with little wind , Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all . So I to her and so she yields to me , For I am rough and woo not like a babe .
Content . ' Tis strange .
Marry , this , well carried , shall on her behalf Change slander to remorse . That is some good . But not for that dream I on this strange course , But on this travail look for greater birth . She , dying , as it must so be maintained , Upon the instant that she was accused , Shall be lamented , pitied and excused Of every hearer . For it so falls out That what we have we prize not to the worth Whiles we enjoy it , but being lacked and lost , Why then we rack the value , then we find
He shall be welcome too . Where is his son , The nimble-footed madcap Prince of Wales , And his comrades , that daffed the world aside And bid it pass ?
Though I lost twenty lives . --Help! Help , ho ! Help ! The Moor hath killed my mistress ! Murder , murder !
You shall be soon dispatched with fair conditions . A night is but small breath and little pause To answer matters of this consequence .
With anger , with sickness , or with hunger , my lord , not with love . Prove that ever I lose more blood with love than I will get again with drinking , pick out mine eyes with a ballad - maker 's pen and hang me up at the door of a brothel house for the sign of blind Cupid .
I have almost matter enough in me for such an embassage , and so I commit you --
Sleep a little .
You have shot over .
Bardolph , a soldier firm and sound of heart And of buxom valor , hath , by cruel Fate And giddy Fortune 's furious fickle wheel , That goddess blind That stands upon the rolling restless stone --
Gentlemen both , you will mistake each other .
Thou liest , most ignorant monster . I am in case to justle a constable . Why , thou deboshed fish , thou , was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much sack as I today ? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie , being but half a fish and half a monster ?
So you 're paid .
This is not altogether fool , my lord .
In honored love .
I am th ' unhappy subject of these quarrels .
Master Shallow , I owe you a thousand pound .
Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to their queen .
Despise me If I do not . Three great ones of the city Off - capped to him , and by the faith of man I know my price , I am worth no worse a place . But he Evades them with a bombast circumstance Horribly stuffed with epithets of war , And in conclusion Nonsuits my mediators . For " Certes , " says he , " I have already chose my officer . " And what was he ? Forsooth , a great arithmetician , One Michael Cassio , a Florentine That never set a squadron in the field , Nor the division of a battle knows More than a spinster -- unless the bookish theoric ,
Then prithee , get thee gone . If for my sake Thou wilt o'ertake us hence a mile or twain I ' th ' way toward Dover , do it for ancient love . And bring some covering for this naked soul , Which I 'll entreat to lead me .
An it shall please you to break up this , it shall seem to signify .
What would your Majesty ? How fares your Grace ?
Today , my lord , and for three months before , No interim , not a minute 's vacancy , Both day and night did we keep company .
God rest you merry , sir .
What shall we do , Enobarbus ?
She is pistol - proof . Sir , you shall not hardly offend her .
Tomorrow , Caesar , I shall be furnished to inform you rightly Both what by sea and land I can be able To front this present time .
There is no seeming mercy in the King .
I say " Yea . "
Ay ; and let none enter , lest I break your pate .
Good even , good Monsieur What - ye - call't . How do you , sir ? You are very well met . God ' ild you for your last company . I am very glad to see you . Even a toy in hand here , sir . Nay , pray be covered .
But ships are but boards , sailors but men . There be land rats and water rats , water thieves and land thieves --I mean pirates -- and then there is the peril of waters , winds , and rocks . The man is notwithstanding sufficient .
So young and so untender ?
' Twould drink the cup and all .
Valiant Othello , we must straight employ you Against the general enemy Ottoman -- I did not see you . Welcome , gentle signior . We lacked your counsel and your help tonight .
Will ' t please your Mightiness to wash your hands ? O , how we joy to see your wit restored ! O , that once more you knew but what you are ! These fifteen years you have been in a dream Or , when you waked , so waked as if you slept .
But , by your favor , how near 's the other army ?
Romeo , the love I bear thee can afford No better term than this : thou art a villain .
Thou sing 'st sweet music . Hark , come hither , Tyrrel .
This likes me well . These foils have all a length ?
I 'll have this crown of mine cut from my shoulders Before I 'll see the crown so foul misplaced . But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it ?
And so am I for Ganymede .
First my fear ; then my curtsy , last my speech . My fear is your displeasure my curtsy my duty ; and my speech , to beg your pardons . If you look for a good speech now , you undo me , for what I have to say is of mine own making , and what indeed I should say will , I doubt , prove mine own marring . But to the purpose , and so to the venture . Be it known to you , as it is very well , I was lately here in the end of a displeasing play to pray your patience for it and to promise you a better . I meant indeed to pay you with this , which , if like an ill venture it come unluckily home , I break , and you , my gentle creditors , lose . Here I promised you I would be , and here I commit my body to your mercies . Bate me some , and I will pay you some , and , as most debtors do , promise you infinitely . And so I kneel down before you , but , indeed , to pray for the Queen . If my tongue cannot entreat you to acquit me , will you command me to use my legs ? And yet that were but light payment , to dance out of your debt . But a good conscience will make any possible satisfaction , and so would I. All the gentlewomen here have forgiven me ; if the gentlemen will not , then the gentlemen do not agree with the gentlewomen , which was never seen before in such an assembly . One word more , I beseech you : if you be not too much cloyed with fat meat , our humble author will continue the story , with Sir John in it , and make you merry with fair Katherine of France , where , for anything I know , Falstaff shall die of a sweat , unless already he be killed with your hard opinions ; for Oldcastle died a martyr , and this is not the man . My tongue is weary ; when my legs are too , I will bid you good night .
Yes , keep you warm .
No , by my life and soul ! Send for the man and ask him .
They are of Norway , sir .
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world ?
Brother Anthony --
Well , what worst ?
Therein our letters do not well agree . Mine speak of seventy senators that died By their proscriptions , Cicero being one .
I have .
It beckons you to go away with it , As if it some impartment did desire To you alone .
You heard her say herself it was not I.
Never did faithful subject more rejoice At the discovery of most dangerous treason Than I do at this hour joy o'er myself , Prevented from a damned enterprise . My fault , but not my body , pardon , sovereign .
Titinius ' face is upward .
Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace , And offer me disguised in sober robes To old Baptista as a schoolmaster Well seen in music , to instruct Bianca , That so I may , by this device at least , Have leave and leisure to make love to her And , unsuspected , court her by herself .
I 'll tell my husband , Launcelot , what you say . Here he comes .
Since I have your good leave to go away , I will make haste . But till I come again , No bed shall e' er be guilty of my stay , No rest be interposer ' twixt us twain .
Happy be Theseus , our renowned duke .
Courageous Richmond , well hast thou acquit thee . Lo , here this long - usurped royalty From the dead temples of this bloody wretch Have I plucked off , to grace thy brows withal . Wear it , enjoy it , and make much of it .
Which dreams indeed are ambition , for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream .
Here 's Romeo 's man . We found him in the churchyard .
This guest of summer , The temple - haunting martlet , does approve , By his loved mansionry , that the heaven 's breath Smells wooingly here . No jutty , frieze , Buttress , nor coign of vantage , but this bird Hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle . Where they most breed and haunt , I have observed , The air is delicate .
I will die bravely , like a smug bridegroom . What , I will be jovial . Come , come . I am a king , my masters , know you that ?
What a brazen - faced varlet art thou to deny thou knowest me ! Is it two days ago since I tripped up thy heels and beat thee before the king ? Draw , you rogue , for though it be night yet the moon shines . I 'll make a sop o ' th ' moonshine of you . Draw , you whoreson cullionly barber - monger , draw !
My lord , what is your will ?
Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast .
The what ?
Where learned you this , Fool ?
Je ne doute point d' apprendre , par la grace de Dieu , et en peu de temps .
So please your grace , the Prologue is addressed .
Is ' t lost ? Is ' t gone ? Speak , is ' t out o ' th ' way ?
Where do you dwell ?
Give him a statue with his ancestors !
To these injunctions every one doth swear That comes to hazard for my worthless self .
Ha , Portia ?
Not mad , but mated -- how , I do not know .
" Lord , " quoth he ? That a monster should be such a natural !
Dispatch : the room where they supped is too hot . They 'll come in straight .
Captain Jamy is a marvelous falorous gentleman , that is certain , and of great expedition and knowledge in th ' aunchient wars , upon my particular knowledge of his directions . By Cheshu , he will maintain his argument as well as any military man in the world in the disciplines of the pristine wars of the Romans .
Put on two leathern jerkins and aprons , and wait upon him at his table as drawers .
And wilt thou have me ?
Here at the door . I pray you call them in .
I had rather hear a brazen can 'stick turned , Or a dry wheel grate on the axletree , And that would set my teeth nothing an edge , Nothing so much as mincing poetry . ' Tis like the forced gait of a shuffling nag .
Ely with Richmond troubles me more near Than Buckingham and his rash - levied strength . Come , I have learned that fearful commenting Is leaden servitor to dull delay ; Delay leads impotent and snail-paced beggary ; Then fiery expedition be my wing , Jove 's Mercury , and herald for a king . Go , muster men . My counsel is my shield . We must be brief when traitors brave the field .
It appears not in this confession . There 's not one wise man among twenty that will praise himself .
Shall I tell thee one thing , Poins ?
What , sigh for the toothache ?
And joy comes well in such a needy time . What are they , beseech your ladyship ?
And me too , good Lord !
I 'll leave you , lady .
Laertes , you shall hear them . --Leave us .
Nothing at all , yet all that is I see .
My lord , he will drive you out of your revenge and turn all to a merriment , if you take not the heat .
And wherefore should these good news make me sick ? Will fortune never come with both hands full , But write her fair words still in foulest letters ? She either gives a stomach and no food --
We have none such , sir .
Pindarus , Bid our commanders lead their charges off A little from this ground .
And you , sir . You are welcome . Travel you far on , or are you at the farthest ?
My errand is to you , fair youth . My gentle Phoebe did bid me give you this . I know not the contents , but as I guess By the stern brow and waspish action Which she did use as she was writing of it , It bears an angry tenor . Pardon me . I am but as a guiltless messenger .
I am glad to see you .
Yea , is the worst well ? Very well took , i ' faith , wisely , wisely .
By this , I think , the dial points at five . Anon , I 'm sure , the Duke himself in person Comes this way to the melancholy vale , The place of death and sorry execution Behind the ditches of the abbey here .
What effects , my lord ? She will sit you -- you heard my daughter tell you how .
He does . He did appoint so .
Ah , that deceit should steal such gentle shape , And with a virtuous visor hide deep vice . He is my son , ay , and therein my shame , Yet from my dugs he drew not this deceit .
O , sir , I did not look so low . To conclude : this drudge or diviner laid claim to me , call' d me Dromio , swore I was assured to her , told me what privy marks I had about me , as the mark of my shoulder , the mole in my neck , the great wart on my left arm , that I , amazed , ran from her as a witch . And , I think , if my breast had not been made of faith , and my heart of steel , She had transformed me to a curtal dog and made me turn i ' th ' wheel .
There 's neither faith , truth , nor womanhood in me else .
Will you not tell me who told you so ?
Nay , she is worse ; she is the devil 's dam , and here she comes in the habit of a light wench . And thereof comes that the wenches say " God damn me " that 's as much to say " God make me a light wench . " It is written they appear to men like angels of light . Light is an effect of fire , and fire will burn : ergo , light wenches will burn . Come not near her .
It may be so , but I did never see it . -- Come , jailer , bring me where the goldsmith is . I long to know the truth hereof at large .
" Little " again ? Nothing but " low " and " little " ! -- Why will you suffer her to flout me thus ? Let me come to her .
The duke cannot deny the course of law . For the commodity that strangers have With us in Venice , if it be denied , Will much impeach the justice of his state , Since that the trade and profit of the city Consisteth of all nations . Therefore go . These griefs and losses have so bated me , That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh Tomorrow to my bloody creditor . -- Well , jailer , on . --Pray God Bassanio come To see me pay his debt , and then I care not .
Lucentio , you shall supply the bridegroom 's place , And let Bianca take her sister 's room .
Fetch me the handkerchief -- my mind misgives .
What , Brutus ?
I 'll make so bold to call , For ' tis my limited service .
No worse than they are back - bitten , sir , for they have marvellous foul linen .
O dear father , Make not too rash a trial of him , for He 's gentle and not fearful .
Come , my lord .
How now?- -Back , friends . --Shepherd , go off a little . --Go with him , sirrah .
O Signior Balthasar , either at flesh or fish A table full of welcome make scarce one dainty dish .
Signior Baptista , my business asketh haste , And every day I cannot come to woo . You knew my father well , and in him me , Left solely heir to all his lands and goods , Which I have bettered rather than decreased . Then tell me , if I get your daughter 's love , What dowry shall I have with her to wife ?
Not that I love you not .
Give me , give me ! O , tell not me of fear !
mine , I can assure him . What said Master Dommelton about the satin for my short cloak and my slops ?
Stood the state so ? No , no , good friends , God wot , For then this land was famously enriched With politic grave counsel ; then the king Had virtuous uncles to protect his Grace .
Ay , mistress bride , hath that awakened you ?
Not so , neither , but I am resolved on two points .
They tell thee true .
Long since thy husband served me in my wars , And I to thee engaged a prince 's word , When thou didst make him master of thy bed , To do him all the grace and good I could .
Too familiar Is my dear son with such sour company . I bring thee tidings of the Prince 's doom .
Then he 's a rogue , and a passy - measures pavin . I hate a drunken rogue .
This is not Brutus , friend , but , I assure you , A prize no less in worth . Keep this man safe . Give him all kindness . I had rather have Such men my friends than enemies . Go on , And see whether Brutus be alive or dead . And bring us word unto Octavius ' tent How everything is chanced .
Oh , let their bodies follow , my dear liege , With blood and sword and fire to win your right , In aid whereof we of the spiritualty Will raise your Highness such a mighty sum As never did the clergy at one time Bring in to any of your ancestors .
What trade art thou , Feeble ?
The fiend hath pricked down Bardolph irrecoverable , and his face is Lucifer 's privy kitchen , where he doth nothing but roast malt - worms . For the boy , there is a good angel about him , but the devil outbids him too .
What noise ?
Honest lord , Thou hast said well , for some of you there present Are worse than devils .
I prithee , Tom , beat Cut 's saddle . Put a few flocks in the point . Poor jade is wrung in the withers out of all cess .
Why do you speak so startingly and rash ?
Lead off this ground , and let 's make further search For my poor son .
What storm is this that blows so contrary ? Is Romeo slaughtered , and is Tybalt dead ? My dearest cousin and my dearer lord ? Then , dreadful trumpet , sound the general doom ! For who is living if those two are gone ?
Not on a band , but on a stronger thing : A chain , a chain . Do you not hear it ring ?
I will , my lord .
Now , Ursula , when Beatrice doth come , As we do trace this alley up and down , Our talk must only be of Benedick . When I do name him , let it be thy part To praise him more than ever man did merit . My talk to thee must be how Benedick Is sick in love with Beatrice . Of this matter Is little Cupid 's crafty arrow made , That only wounds by hearsay .
Thou dost belie him , Percy ; thou dost belie him . He never did encounter with Glendower . I tell thee , he durst as well have met the devil alone As Owen Glendower for an enemy . Art thou not ashamed ? But , sirrah , henceforth Let me not hear you speak of Mortimer . Send me your prisoners with the speediest means , Or you shall hear in such a kind from me As will displease you . --My lord Northumberland , We license your departure with your son . --
For the love o ' God , peace !
As he shall smile , Othello shall go mad . And his unbookish jealousy must construe Poor Cassio 's smiles , gestures , and light behavior Quite in the wrong . --How do you now , lieutenant ?
Half - blooded fellow , yes .
What , in ill thoughts again ? Men must endure Their going hence even as their coming hither . Ripeness is all . Come on .
Sir John , Sir John , do not yourself wrong . They are your likeliest men , and I would have you served with the best .
If you dare not trust that you see , confess not that you know . If you will follow me , I will show you enough , and when you have seen more and heard more , proceed accordingly .
How now ? Where 's that mongrel ?
Oh , for two special reasons , Which may to you perhaps seem much unsinewed , But yet to me they are strong . The queen his mother Lives almost by his looks , and for myself -- My virtue or my plague , be it either which -- She 's so conjunctive to my life and soul , That , as the star moves not but in his sphere , I could not but by her . The other motive Why to a public count I might not go , Is the great love the general gender bear him , Who , dipping all his faults in their affection , Would , like the spring that turneth wood to stone , Convert his gyves to graces -- so that my arrows , Too slightly timbered for so loud a wind , Would have reverted to my bow again , And not where I had aimed them .
Sir , you have shown today your valiant strain , And fortune led you well . You have the captives That were the opposites of this day 's strife .
" Madam . "
I think not of them . Yet , when we can entreat an hour to serve , We would spend it in some words upon that business , If you would grant the time .
No , I hear not your honest friend , I hear you .
Retreat is made and execution stayed .
And buried , gentle Tyrrel ?
Your silence most offends me , and to be merry best becomes you , for out o ' question you were born in a merry hour .
And therefore is he idle ?
This was a great argument of love in her toward you .
Thy gown ? Why , ay . Come , tailor , let us see ' t . O mercy , God ! What masking stuff is here ? What 's this ? A sleeve ? ' Tis like a demi-cannon .
O Juliet , I already know thy grief . It strains me past the compass of my wits . I hear thou must , and nothing may prorogue it , On Thursday next be married to this county .
Prithee , peace .
She once being loofed , The noble ruin of her magic , Antony , Claps on his sea - wing and , like a doting mallard Leaving the fight in height , flies after her . I never saw an action of such shame . Experience , manhood , honor , ne'er before Did violate so itself .
Ay , but not rough enough .
Will you cover then , sir ?
Fie , how impatience loureth in your face .
Come you , sir . If justice cannot tame you , she shall ne'er weigh more reasons in her balance . Nay , an you be a cursing hypocrite once , you must be looked to .
How came these things to pass ? Oh , how mine eyes do loathe his visage now !
What , ho , what , ho , what , ho !
So is Lysander .
Neither ; ' tis a woman 's fault .
It likes me well . --Cambio , hie you home , And bid Bianca make her ready straight . And , if you will , tell what hath happened : Lucentio 's father is arrived in Padua , And how she 's like to be Lucentio 's wife .
O Hal , I prithee , give me leave to breathe awhile . Turk Gregory never did such deeds in arms as I have done this day . I have paid Percy ; I have made him sure .
Ding - dong , bell .
What , are they children ? Who maintains ' em ? How are they escoted ? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can sing ? Will they not say afterwards , if they should grow themselves to common players , their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim against their own succession ?
Killing swine .
Go , by this token . Rise , and lend thine ear .
And like the baseless fabric of this vision , The cloud - capped towers , the gorgeous palaces , The solemn temples , the great globe itself -- Yea , all which it inherit -- shall dissolve , And like this insubstantial pageant faded , Leave not a rack behind . We are such stuff As dreams are made on , and our little life Is rounded with a sleep . Sir , I am vexed . Bear with my weakness . My old brain is troubled . Be not disturbed with my infirmity . If you be pleased , retire into my cell And there repose . A turn or two I 'll walk To still my beating mind .
Well , God - ' a ' - mercy .
By my troth , I 'll tell thee , I am almost sick for one , though I would not have it grow on my chin . Is thy lady within ?
A whoreson mad fellow 's it was . Whose do you think it was ?
Calls my lord ?
So , if a son that is by his father sent about merchandise do sinfully miscarry upon the sea , the imputation of his wickedness , by your rule , should be imposed upon his father that sent him . Or if a servant , under his master 's command transporting a sum of money , be assailed by robbers and die in many irreconciled iniquities , you may call the business of the master the author of the servant 's damnation . But this is not so . The king is not bound to answer the particular endings of his soldiers , the father of his son , nor the master of his servant , for they purpose not their death , when they purpose their services . Besides , there is no king , be his cause never so spotless , if it come to the arbitrament of swords , can try it out with all unspotted soldiers . Some , peradventure , have on them the guilt of premeditated and contrived murder ; some , of beguiling virgins with the broken seals of perjury ; some , making the wars their bulwark , that have before gored the gentle bosom of peace with pillage and robbery . Now , if these men have defeated the law and outrun native punishment , though they can outstrip men , they have no wings to fly from God . War is His beadle , war is His vengeance , so that here men are punished for before - breach of the king 's laws in now the king 's quarrel . Where they feared the death , they have borne life away ; and where they would be safe , they perish . Then , if they die unprovided , no more is the king guilty of their damnation than he was before guilty of those impieties for the which they are now visited . Every subject 's duty is the king 's , but every subject 's soul is his own . Therefore should every soldier in the wars do as every sick man in his bed : wash every mote out of his conscience . And , dying so , death is to him advantage ; or not dying , the time was blessedly lost wherein such preparation was gained . And in him that escapes , it were not sin to think that , making God so free an offer , He let him outlive that day to see His greatness and to teach others how they should prepare .
With love 's light wings did I o'erperch these walls , For stony limits cannot hold love out , And what love can do , that dares love attempt . Therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me .
What , none ?
There 's the point .
There to meet with Macbeth .
You shall be king .
Read the will . We 'll hear it , Antony . You shall read us the will , Caesar 's will .
Sir , sir , the first 's for me ; let her go by .
Trust me , I am glad on ' t .
Speak , hands , for me !
Thou hast the most unsavory similes , and art indeed the most comparative , rascaliest , sweet young Prince . But , Hal , I comparative , rascaliest , sweet young Prince . But , Hal , I prithee trouble me no more with vanity . I would to God thou and I knew where a commodity of good names were to be bought . An old lord of the council rated me the other day in the street about you , sir , but I marked him not , and yet he talked very wisely , but I regarded him not , and yet he talked wisely , and in the street , too .
The gallows - maker , for that frame outlives a thousand tenants .
Caesar .
Lives my sweet son ?
Yes , by Saint Patrick , but there is , Horatio , And much offense too . Touching this vision here , It is an honest ghost , that let me tell you . For your desire to know what is between us , O ' ermaster ' t as you may . And now , good friends , As you are friends , scholars and soldiers , Give me one poor request .
I am sorry that your leisure serves you not . -- Antonio , gratify this gentleman , For in my mind you are much bound to him .
I can as well be hanged as tell the manner of it . It was mere foolery . I did not mark it . I saw Mark Antony offer him a crown and , as I told you , he put it by once -- but , for all that , to my thinking , he would fain have had it . Then he offered it to him again , then he put it by again -- but , to my thinking , he was very loath to lay his fingers off it . And then he offered it the third time . He put it the third time by . And still , as he refused it , the rabblement hooted and clapped their chapped hands and threw up their sweaty night - caps and uttered such a deal of stinking breath because Caesar refused the crown that it had almost choked Caesar -- for he swooned and fell down at it . And for mine own part , I durst not laugh for fear of opening my lips and receiving the bad air .
Then be it so , and go we to determine Who they shall be that straight shall post to Ludlow . -- Madam , and you , my sister , will you go To give your censures in this business ?
Where is that damned villain , Tranio , That faced and braved me in this matter so ?
Sir Topas , never was man thus wronged . Good Sir Topas , do not think I am mad . They have laid me here in hideous darkness .
Tomorrow will it please you to be crowned ?
He cannot come , my lord . He is grievous sick .
Welcome home , Grumio .
I thank my noble lord . Wilt thou be pleased to hearken once again to the suit I made to thee ?
Went 'st not thou to her for a purse of ducats ?
Go to .
A blank , my lord . She never told her love , But let concealment , like a worm i ' the bud , Feed on her damask cheek . She pined in thought , And with a green and yellow melancholy She sat like patience on a monument , Smiling at grief . Was not this love indeed ? We men may say more , swear more , but indeed Our shows are more than will , for still we prove Much in our vows , but little in our love .
Speak . I am bound to hear .
Look back ! Defend thee ! Here are enemies .
Sir Toby , madam , your kinsman .
I have more cause .
My words fly up , my thoughts remain below . Words without thoughts never to heaven go .
Well , let them rest . --Come hither , Catesby . Thou art sworn as deeply to effect what we intend As closely to conceal what we impart . Thou knowest our reasons , urged upon the way . What thinkest thou ? Is it not an easy matter To make William Lord Hastings of our mind For the installment of this noble duke In the seat royal of this famous isle ?
Tut , tut , my lord , we will not stand to prate . Talkers are no good doers . Be assured We go to use our hands and not our tongues .
You shall not choose but drink before you go . I think I shall command your welcome here , And , by all likelihood , some cheer is toward .
Ay , I know who ' tis . He hath no interest in me in the world .
What , art mad ? A man may see how this world goes with no eyes . Look with thine ears . See how yon justice rails upon yon simple thief . Hark in thine ear : change places and , handy - dandy , which is the justice , which is the thief ? Thou hast seen a farmer 's dog bark at a beggar ?
Very foul .
You shall be yet far fairer than you are .
All' s well . I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters : To you they have showed some truth .
Hark you , sir , you mean not her to --
I know not what you mean by that , but I am sure Caesar fell down . If the tag - rag people did not clap him and hiss him according as he pleased and displeased them , as they use to do the players in the theatre , I am no true man .
Here is better than the open air . Take it thankfully . I will piece out the comfort with what addition I can . I will not be long from you .
Was he not companion with the riotous knights That tend upon my father ?
As good a gentleman as the emperor .
Why , how now , my bawcock ! How dost thou , chuck ?
I have heard a sonnet begin so to one 's mistress .
The virtue that possession would not show us Whiles it was ours . So will it fare with Claudio . When he shall hear she died upon his words , The idea of her life shall sweetly creep Into his study of imagination , And every lovely organ of her life Shall come apparelled in more precious habit , More moving , delicate and full of life , Into the eye and prospect of his soul Than when she lived indeed . Then shall he mourn , If ever love had interest in his liver , And wish he had not so accused her , No , though he thought his accusation true . Let this be so , and doubt not but success Will fashion the event in better shape Than I can lay it down in likelihood . But if all aim but this be leveled false , The supposition of the lady 's death Will quench the wonder of her infamy . And if it sort not well , you may conceal her , As best befits her wounded reputation , In some reclusive and religious life , Out of all eyes , tongues , minds , and injuries .
A goodly one , in which there are many confines , wards , and dungeons , Denmark being one o ' th ' worst .
Here , here ! For heaven 's sake , help me !
Arraign her first . ' Tis Goneril . I here take my oath before this honorable assembly , she kicked the poor king her father .
Go to , then . Your considerate stone .
O thou foul thief , where hast thou stowed my daughter ? Damned as thou art , thou hast enchanted her ! For I 'll refer me to all things of sense , If she in chains of magic were not bound , Whether a maid so tender , fair , and happy , So opposite to marriage that she shunned The wealthy curled darlings of our nation , Would ever have , t ' incur a general mock , Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom Of such a thing as thou -- to fear , not to delight . Judge me the world if ' tis not gross in sense That thou hast practiced on her with foul charms , Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals That weakens motion . I 'll have ' t disputed on . ' Tis probable and palpable to thinking . I therefore apprehend and do attach thee For an abuser of the world , a practicer Of arts inhibited and out of warrant . -- Lay hold upon him . If he do resist , Subdue him at his peril !
These letters give , Iago , to the pilot , And by him do my duties to the senate . That done , I will be walking on the works , Repair there to me .
Sir , do you know me ?
Letters from him ! Why comes he not himself ?
And trust me , love , in my eye so do you . Dry sorrow drinks our blood . Adieu , adieu !
Come , good Athenian .
' Tis so .
' Tis good we do so .
Ay , sir , but " While the grass grows -- " The proverb is something musty --Oh , the recorders ! Let me see one . To withdraw with you , why do you go about to recover the wind of me as if you would drive me into a toil ?
I do , my lord , but long I shall not stay there . I shall return before your Lordship thence .
I have almost forgot the taste of fears . The time has been my senses would have cooled To hear a night - shriek , and my fell of hair Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir As life were in ' t . I have supped full with horrors . Direness , familiar to my slaughterous thoughts Cannot once start me .
Well , and what of him ?
Can I go forward when my heart is here ? Turn back , dull earth , and find thy center out .
They are beaten , sir , and our advantage serves For a fair victory .
Thou shalt be whipped with wire and stewed in brine , Smarting in ling'ring pickle !
Not when I saw ' t .
Take time to pause , and by the next new moon -- The sealing day betwixt my love and me For everlasting bond of fellowship -- Upon that day either prepare to die For disobedience to your father 's will , Or else to wed Demetrius , as he would , Or on Diana 's altar to protest For aye austerity and single life .
How now , cousin Hero !
But sir , to love concerneth us to add Her father 's liking , which to bring to pass , As I before unparted to your worship , I am to get a man -- whate'er he be It skills not much , we 'll fit him to our turn -- And he shall be " Vincentio of Pisa " And make assurance here in Padua Of greater sums than I have promised . So shall you quietly enjoy your hope And marry sweet Bianca with consent .
Fie upon thee ! Art not ashamed ?
O God , I have an ill - divining soul . Methinks I see thee now , thou art so low As one dead in the bottom of a tomb . Either my eyesight fails , or thou look 'st pale .
You can never bring in a wall . What say you , Bottom ?
And so do I too , lieutenant .
Why , how now , Adam ? No greater heart in thee ? Live a little , comfort a little , cheer thyself a little . If this uncouth forest yield anything savage , I will either be food for it or bring it for food to thee . Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers . For my sake , be comfortable . Hold death awhile at the arm 's end . I will here be with thee presently , and if I bring thee not something to eat , I will give thee leave to die . But if thou diest before I come , thou art a mocker of my labor . Well said . Thou look 'st cheerly , and I 'll be with thee quickly . Yet thou liest in the bleak air . Come , I will bear thee to some shelter , and thou shalt not die for lack of a dinner if there live anything in this desert . Cheerly , good Adam .
Madam !
Indeed , he looks younger than he did , by the loss of a beard .
Do the boys carry it away ?
Look where he comes .
Hear 'st thou , Biondello ?
Then , tell me , Who 's the next heir of Naples ?
O bind him , bind him ! Let him not come near me .
I think you are fallen into the disease , for you hear not what I say to you .
I pray you , sir , what is he ?
A maiden never bold , Of spirit so still and quiet that her motion Blushed at herself . And she , in spite of nature , Of years , of country , credit , everything , To fall in love with what she feared to look on ? It is a judgment maimed and most imperfect That will confess perfection so could err . Against all rules of nature , and must be driven To find out practices of cunning hell Why this should be . I therefore vouch again That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood Or with some dram , conjured to this effect , He wrought upon her .
Good my lord , enter here .
Do , good friend .
Who is that calls so coldly ?
Hark , hark ! I hear The strain of strutting chanticleer Cry " Cock - a - diddle - dow . "
Bonos dies , Sir Toby . For , as the old hermit of Prague , that never saw pen and ink , very wittily said to a niece of King Gorboduc , " That that is is . " So I , being Master Parson , am Master Parson . For , what is " that " but " that , " and " is " but " is " ?
An if I have not , sir , I hope you have , Or else you may return without your money .
Oh , that the slave had forty thousand lives ! One is too poor , too weak for my revenge . Now do I see ' tis true . Look here , Iago , All my fond love thus do I blow to heaven . ' Tis gone . Arise , black vengeance , from the hollow hell ! Yield up , O love , thy crown and hearted throne To tyrannous hate ! Swell , bosom , with thy fraught , For ' tis of aspics ' tongues !
How now , my lord ! Why do you keep alone , Of sorriest fancies your companions making , Using those thoughts which should indeed have died With them they think on ? Things without all remedy Should be without regard . What 's done is done .
How does thy honor ? Let me lick thy shoe . I 'll not serve him . He 's not valiant .
A lover that kills himself , most gallant , for love .
Madam , although I speak it in your presence , You have a noble and a true conceit Of godlike amity , which appears most strongly In bearing thus the absence of your lord . But if you knew to whom you show this honor , How true a gentleman you send relief , How dear a lover of my lord your husband , I know you would be prouder of the work Than customary bounty can enforce you .
What would you with me , honest neighbor ?
I will not be sworn but love may transform me to an oyster , but I 'll take my oath on it , till he have made an oyster of me , he shall never make me such a fool . One woman is fair , yet I am well ; another is wise , yet I am well ; another virtuous , yet I am well ; but till all graces be in one woman , one woman shall not come in my grace . Rich she shall be , that 's certain ; wise , or I 'll none ; virtuous , or I 'll never cheapen her ; fair , or I 'll ever look on her ; mild , or come not near me ; noble , or not I for an angel ; of good discourse , an excellent musician , and her hair shall be of what color it please God . Ha ! The Prince and Monsieur Love ! I will hide me in the arbor .
Carthage ?
I have a head , sir , that will find out logs , And never trouble Peter for the matter .
Is not this your son , my lord ?
No such matter , sir . I do live by the church ; for I do live at my house , and my house doth stand by the church .
Kiss me , Doll .
Thy woes will make them sharp and pierce like mine .
At your kind 'st leisure .
A countenance more In sorrow than in anger .
Brother , good night . Tomorrow is the day .
Kill Claudio .
He hath .
Oh , by whom ?
Where died she ?
To th ' platform , masters . Come , let 's set the watch .
The ides of March are come .
But who is with him ?
None that I more love than myself . You are a councilor . If you can command these elements to silence and work the peace of the present , we will not hand a rope more . Use your authority . If you cannot , give thanks you have lived so long and make yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of the hour , if it so hap . --Cheerly , good hearts ! --Out of our way , I say .
Who doth he gallop withal ?
And let him ply his music .
I pray you , sir , take patience . I have hope You less know how to value her desert Than she to scant her duty .
With the help of a surgeon he might yet recover and prove an ass .
From the Count Orsino , is it ?
I was pricked well enough before , an you could have let me alone . My old dame will be undone now for one to do her husbandry and her drudgery . You need not to have pricked me . There are other men fitter to go out than I.
Now , sir , what make you here ?
For God 's sake , a pot of small ale .
Where should they be set else ? He were a brave monster indeed , if they were set in his tail .
Cousin , of many men I do not bear these crossings . Give me leave To tell you once again that at my birth The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes , The goats ran from the mountains , and the herds Were strangely clamorous to the frighted fields . These signs have marked me extraordinary , And all the courses of my life do show I am not in the roll of common men . Where is he living , clipped in with the sea That chides the banks of England , Scotland , Wales , Which calls me pupil or hath read to me ? And bring him out that is but woman 's son Can trace me in the tedious ways of art And hold me pace in deep experiments .
What is this maid with whom thou wast at play ? Your eld' st acquaintance cannot be three hours . Is she the goddess that hath severed us And brought us thus together ?
But , hark ! a sail .
See thyself , devil ! Proper deformity shows not in the fiend So horrid as in woman .
Has been told so , and he says he 'll stand at your door like a sheriff 's post , and be the supporter to a bench , but he 'll speak with you .
No man bears sorrow better . Portia is dead .
O Antony , You have my father 's house . But what ? We are friends . Come , down into the boat .
Why , they will allo w us ne'er a jordan , and then we leak in your chimney , and your chamber - lye breeds fleas like a loach .
What 's that , my lord ?
Patience , I say . Your mind may change .
Had he done so ?
My dear lord , You know the fiery quality of the duke , How unremoveable and fixed he is In his own course .
No , sir , ' tis in grain ; Noah 's flood could not do it .
And died so ?
I pray you , be not angry with me , madam , Speaking my fancy . Signor Benedick , For shape , for bearing , argument and valor , Goes foremost in report through Italy .
I see a voice . Now will I to the chink , To spy an I can hear my Thisbe 's face . Thisbe ?
See not your bride in these unreverent robes . Go to my chamber , put on clothes of mine .
It is more worthy to leap in ourselves Than tarry till they push us . Good Volumnius , Thou know 'st that we two went to school together . Even for that our love of old , I prithee , Hold thou my sword hilts , whilst I run on it .
O my follies ! Then Edgar was abused . Kind gods , forgive me that , and prosper him !
Well , God mend him . I pray you let me speak with you .
Methoughts that I had broken from the Tower And was embarked to cross to Burgundy , And in my company my brother Gloucester , Who from my cabin tempted me to walk Upon the hatches . Thence we looked toward England And cited up a thousand fearful times , During the wars of York and Lancaster That had befall'n us . As we paced along Upon the giddy footing of the hatches , Methought that Gloucester stumbled , and in falling Struck me , that thought to stay him , overboard Into the tumbling billows of the main . O Lord , methought what pain it was to drown , What dreadful noise of waters in my ears , What sights of ugly death within my eyes . Methoughts I saw a thousand fearful wracks , A thousand men that fishes gnawed upon , Wedges of gold , great anchors , heaps of pearl , Inestimable stones , unvalued jewels , All scattered in the bottom of the sea .
Black night o'ershade thy day , and death thy life .
This is the greatest error of all the rest . The man should be put into the lanthorn . How is it else the " man i ' th ' moon " ?
Indeed , I am not John of Gaunt , your grandfather , but yet no coward , Hal .
Brother of Gloucester , you mistake the matter . The king , on his own royal disposition , And not provoked by any suitor else , Aiming belike at your interior hatred That in your outward actions shows itself Against my children , brothers , and myself , Makes him to send , that he may learn the ground .
I would I had been there .
God 's my life , where 's the Sexton ? Let him write down the Prince 's officer " coxcomb . " Come , bind them . --Thou naughty varlet !
Why , go to bed , and sleep .
More than pertains to feats of broils and battle , And therefore little shall I grace my cause In speaking for myself . Yet , by your gracious patience , I will a round unvarnished tale deliver Of my whole course of love . What drugs , what charms , What conjuration and what mighty magic -- For such proceeding I am charged withal -- I won his daughter .
Oh , bloody period !
I cannot believe that in her . She 's full of most blessed condition .
I am but mad north - north - west . When the wind is southerly , I know a hawk from a handsaw .
Sir , ' tis my occupation to be plain . I have seen better faces in my time Than stands on any shoulder that I see Before me at this instant .
Is it concluded that he shall be Protector ?
And why not as the lion ?
Basting .
But here comes Antony .
We 'll have dancing afterward .
It is the devil .
Then meet me forthwith at the notary 's . Give him direction for this merry bond , And I will go and purse the ducats straight , See to my house left in the fearful guard Of an unthrifty knave , and presently I will be with you .
Here 's the commission . Read it at more leisure . But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed ?
For what offence ?
Here come the heavy issue of dead Harry . O , that the living Harry had the temper Of he the worst of these three gentlemen ! How many nobles then should hold their places That must strike sail to spirits of vile sort !
An I may hide my face , let me play Thisbe too ! I 'll speak in a monstrous little voice : " Thisne , Thisne ! " -- " Ah , Pyramus , my lover dear , thy Thisbe dear and lady dear ! "
How is it that the clouds still hang on you ?
Well said , my noble Scot . If speaking truth In this fine age were not thought flattery , Such attribution should the Douglas have As not a soldier of this season 's stamp Should go so general current through the world . By God , I cannot flatter . I do defy The tongues of soothers . But a braver place In my heart 's love hath no man than yourself . Nay , task me to my word ; approve me , lord .
Who , I rob ? I a thief ? not I , by my faith .
Go , Gratiano , run and overtake him . Give him the ring and bring him , if thou canst , Unto Antonio 's house . Away , make haste .
You shall not seal to such a bond for me ! I 'll rather dwell in my necessity .
Mistress , respice finem , respect your end , or rather , the prophecy like the parrot , " Beware the rope 's end . "
On the sixth hour , at which time , my lord , You said our work should cease .
If you will live , lament . If die , be brief , That our swift - winged souls may catch the king 's , Or , like obedient subjects , follow him To his new kingdom of ne'er - changing night .
O sweet bully Bottom ! Thus hath he lost sixpence a day during his life . He could not have 'scaped sixpence a day . An the duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing Pyramus , I 'll be hanged .
Mass , and my elbow itched , I thought there would a scab follow .
What you have charged me with , that have I done -- And more , much more . The time will bring it out . ' Tis past , and so am I. But what art thou That hast this fortune on me ? If thou'rt noble , I do forgive thee .
Trust me , I fear it has . I hope you will consider what is spoke Comes from my love . But I do see you 're moved . I am to pray you not to strain my speech To grosser issues nor to larger reach Than to suspicion .
We never valued this poor seat of England And therefore , living hence , did give ourself To barbarous license , as ' tis ever common That men are merriest when they are from home . But tell the Dauphin I will keep my state , Be like a king , and show my sail of greatness When I do rouse me in my throne of France , For that I have laid by my majesty And plodded like a man for working days . But I will rise there with so full a glory That I will dazzle all the eyes of France , Yea , strike the Dauphin blind to look on us . And tell the pleasant prince this mock of his Hath turned his balls to gun - stones , and his soul Shall stand sore charged for the wasteful vengeance That shall fly with them ; for many a thousand widows Shall this his mock mock out of their dear husbands , Mock mothers from their sons , mock castles down , And some are yet ungotten and unborn That shall have cause to curse the Dauphin 's scorn . But this lies all within the will of God , To whom I do appeal , and in whose name Tell you the Dauphin I am coming on , To venge me as I may and to put forth My rightful hand in a well - hallowed cause . So get you hence in peace . And tell the Dauphin His jest will savor but of shallow wit When thousands weep more than did laugh at it . --Convey them with safe conduct . --Fare you well .
Come ho , and wake Diana with a hymn ! With sweetest touches pierce your mistress ' ear , And draw her home with music .
What the devil hast thou brought there -- applejohns ? Thou knowest Sir John cannot endure an applejohn .
My point and period will be throughly wrought , Or well or ill , as this day 's battle 's fought .
Tonight , say I.
Send for the county . Go tell him of this . I 'll have this knot knit up tomorrow morning .
' Tis not the first time you were overshot .
Donalbain .
Here comes young Master Ganymede , my new mistress 's brother .
I do serve you in this business .
How now , worthy soldier ?
What is here ? " The fire seven times tried this , Seven times tried that judgment is , That did never choose amiss . Some there be that shadows kiss . Such have but a shadow 's bliss . There be fools alive , iwis , Silvered o'er -- and so was this . Take what wife you will to bed , I will ever be your head . So be gone . You are sped . Still more fool I shall appear " By the time I linger here . With one fool 's head I came to woo , But I go away with two . -- Sweet , adieu . I 'll keep my oath Patiently to bear my wroth . "
What tell 'st thou me of robbing ? This is Venice , My house is not a grange .
Ay , sir , for three months .
Pray , sir , put your sword up , if you please .
That last is true . The sweeter rest was mine .
I think he only loves the world for him . I pray thee , let us go and find him out And quicken his embraced heaviness With some delight or other .
Marry , sir , in her buttocks . I found it out by the bogs .
I could never better stead thee than now . Put money in thy purse . Follow thou the wars , defeat thy favor with an usurped beard . I say , put money in thy purse . It cannot be long that Desdemona should continue her love to the Moor -- put money in thy purse -- nor he his to her . It was a violent commencement in her , and thou shalt see an answerable sequestration -- put but money in thy purse . These Moors are changeable in their wills -- fill thy purse with money . The food that to him now is as luscious as locusts shall be to him shortly as bitter as coloquintida . She must change for youth . When she is sated with his body she will find the errors of her choice . Therefore , put money in thy purse . If thou wilt needs damn thyself , do it a more delicate way than drowning . Make all the money thou canst . If sanctimony and a frail vow betwixt an erring barbarian and supersubtle Venetian be not too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell , thou shalt enjoy her . Therefore make money . A pox of drowning thyself ! ' Tis clean out of the way . Seek thou rather to be hanged in compassing thy joy than to be drowned and go without her .
Not so , my lord . I am too much i ' the sun .
Look , look . O heavy day !
Love ? His affections do not that way tend . Nor what he spake , though it lacked form a little , Was not like madness . There 's something in his soul O ' er which his melancholy sits on brood , And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose Will be some danger -- which for to prevent , I have in quick determination Thus set it down : he shall with speed to England For the demand of our neglected tribute . Haply the seas and countries different With variable objects shall expel This something - settled matter in his heart , Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus From fashion of himself . What think you on ' t ?
So , come , help . Well struck ! There was blow for blow .
I take ' t ' tis later , sir .
Welcome , sweet prince , to London , to your chamber .
He , he , ' tis he .
Sirrah , you giant , what says the doctor to my water ?
Roderigo killed ? And Cassio killed !
O Hero , what a Hero hadst thou been If half thy outward graces had been placed About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart ! But fare thee well , most foul , most fair ! Farewell , Thou pure impiety and impious purity . For thee I 'll lock up all the gates of love , And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang , To turn all beauty into thoughts of harm , And never shall it more be gracious .
As they pinch one another by the disposition , he cries out , " No more , " reconciles them to his entreaty and himself to th ' drink .
Hear a little further And then I 'll bring thee to the present business Which now 's upon ' s , without the which this story Were most impertinent .
Good night , sir . --My Octavia , Read not my blemishes in the world 's report . I have not kept my square , but that to come Shall all be done by th ' rule . Good night , dear lady . Good night , sir .
Come , go along . My wife is coming yonder .
Graybeard , thy love doth freeze .
What said he ?
Larded all with sweet flowers , Which bewept to the ground did not go With true - love showers .
How now ! Whose mare 's dead ? What 's the matter ?
Why then , your ambition makes it one . ' Tis too narrow for your mind .
Even since you left it . Doth not my wit become me rarely ?
I will tell you . The barge she sat in , like a burnished throne , Burned on the water . The poop was beaten gold , Purple the sails , and so perfumed that The winds were lovesick with them . The oars were silver , Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke , and made The water which they beat to follow faster , As amorous of their strokes . For her own person , It beggared all description : she did lie In her pavilion - - cloth - of - gold , of tissue -- O ' erpicturing that Venus where we see The fancy outwork nature . On each side her Stood pretty dimpled boys , like smiling Cupids , With divers - colored fans , whose wind did seem To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool , And what they undid did .
Only to despite them , I will endeavor anything .
Youngling , thou canst not love so dear as I.
Complain unto the Duke of this indignity .
Is ' t possible ?
I will catechize the world for him , that is , make questions , and by them answer .
Sir , would she give you so much of her lips As of her tongue she oft bestows on me , You 'll have enough .
Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing , more than any man in all Venice . His reasons are as two grains of wheat hid in two bushels of chaff -- you shall seek all day ere you find them , and when you have them they are not worth the search .
Well , I 'll break in . Go , borrow me a crow .
Excellent well . You are a fishmonger .
So do the kings of France unto this day , Howbeit they would hold up this Salic law To bar your Highness claiming from the female And rather choose to hide them in a net Than amply to imbar their crooked titles Usurped from you and your progenitors .
Hark , now I hear them .
No , sure , my lord , my mother cried , but then there was a star danced , and under that was I born . --Cousins , God give you joy !
" Solus , " egregious dog ? O viper vile , The solus in thy most marvelous face , The solus in thy teeth and in thy throat And in thy hateful lungs , yea , in thy maw , perdy , And , which is worse , within thy nasty mouth ! I do retort the solus in thy bowels , For I can take , and Pistol 's cock is up , And flashing fire will follow .
It is shaped , sir , like itself , and it is as broad as it hath breadth . It is just so high as it is , and moves with its own organs . It lives by that which nourisheth it , and , the elements once out of it , it transmigrates .
Is not this Stephano , my drunken butler ?
A hit , a very palpable hit .
My lord , my lord ! What , ho ! My lord , my lord !
Fore God , a likely fellow . Come , prick me Bullcalf till he roar again .
That 's even as fair as " at hand , quoth the Chamberlain , " for thou variest no more from picking of purses than giving direction doth from laboring : thou layest the plot how .
Now God in heaven bless thee ! Hark you , sir .
Mistress , both man and master is possessed . I know it by their pale and deadly looks . They must be bound and laid in some dark room .
I 'll lay fourteen of my teeth -- and yet , to my teen be it spoken , I have but four -- she is not fourteen . How long is it now to Lammastide ?
Not a word .
Set down , set down your honorable load , If honor may be shrouded in a hearse , Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament Th ' untimely fall of virtuous Lancaster .
Here is two more called than your number . You must have but four here , sir , and so I pray you go in with me to dinner .
She is desperate here , a peevish self-willed harlotry , One that no persuasion can do good upon .
Come , come , dispatch . The duke would be at dinner . Make a short shrift . He longs to see your head .
If she be false , heaven mocked itself . I 'll not believe ' t .
Why , then , I care not for thee .
Cry to it , nuncle , as the cockney did to the eels when she put ' em i ' th ' paste alive . She knapped ' em o ' th ' coxcombs with a stick and cried , " Down , wantons , down ! " ' Twas her brother that , in pure kindness to his horse , buttered his hay .
Is that his answer ?
Flatterers? --Now , Brutus , thank yourself . This tongue had not offended so today If Cassius might have ruled .
No , no , we will hold it as a dream till it appear itself . But I will acquaint my daughter withal , that she may be the better prepared for an answer if peradventure this be true . Go you and tell her of it .
Th ' art an honest man .
Go , be gone . We shall be much unfurnished for this time .
Madam , in Rome . I looked her in the face , and saw her led Between her brother and Mark Antony .
By this hand , thou thinkest me as far in the devil 's book as thou and Falstaff for obduracy and persistency . Let the end try the man . But I tell thee , my heart bleeds inwardly that my father is so sick : and keeping such vile company as thou art hath in reason taken from me all ostentation of sorrow .
Why , he shall never wake until the great Judgment Day .
Why , what effects of passion shows she ?
Less noise , less noise .
Not a whit . We defy augury . There 's a special providence in the fall of a sparrow . If it be now , ' tis not to come . If it be not to come , it will be now . If it be not now , yet it will come -- the readiness is all . Since no man of aught he leaves knows , what is ' t to leave betimes ? Let be .
Here is a wonder , if you talk of a wonder .
Vouchsafe , defused infection of a man , Of these known evils but to give me leave By circumstance to curse thy cursed self .
Be thou assured , good Cassio , I will do All my abilities in thy behalf .
Harpier cries , " 'Tis time , ' tis time . "
And I 'll stick by him , sir .
Yea , my lord , but I can cross it .
Now the hungry lion roars And the wolf behowls the moon , Whilst the heavy ploughman snores , All with weary task fordone . Now the wasted brands do glow , Whilst the screech-owl , screeching loud , Puts the wretch that lies in woe In remembrance of a shroud . Now it is the time of night That the graves all gaping wide , Every one lets forth his sprite , In the churchway paths to glide .
Yes , for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle , And I would call it fair play .
Macduff is missing , and your noble son .
Why , e' en so . And now my Lady Worm 's , chapless and knocked about the mazard with a sexton 's spade . Here 's fine revolution , an we had the trick to see ' t . Did these bones cost no more the breeding but to play at loggets with them ? Mine ache to think on ' t .
O villain , thy lips are scarce wiped since thou drunk 'st last .
A very even way , but no such friend .
Swear by his sword .
Indeed , they say the senators tomorrow Mean to establish Caesar as a king , And he shall wear his crown by sea and land In every place save here in Italy .
I shall never begin if I hold my peace .
O Lord , my lord , if they were but a week married , they would talk themselves mad .
If this be so , why blame you me to love you ?
Goodly Lord , what a wit - snapper are you ! Then bid them prepare dinner .
I will converse with iron - witted fools And unrespective boys . None are for me That look into me with considerate eyes . High - reaching Buckingham grows circumspect . -- Boy !
No , let me not .
If it be love indeed , tell me how much .
How ? The Duke in council ? In this time of the night ? Bring him away . Mine 's not an idle cause . The Duke himself , Or any of my brothers of the state , Cannot but feel this wrong as ' twere their own . For if such actions may have passage free , Bond - slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be .
What did thy song bode , lady ? Hark , canst thou hear me ? I will play the swan . And die in music . Willow , willow , willow -- Moor , she was chaste , she loved thee , cruel Moor . So come my soul to bliss , as I speak true . So speaking as I think , alas , I die .
No. Nor it is not meet he should , for , though I speak it to you , I think the king is but a man as I am . The violet smells to him as it doth to me . The element shows to him as it doth to me . All his senses have but human conditions . His ceremonies laid by , in his nakedness he appears but a man , and though his affections are higher mounted than ours , yet when they stoop , they stoop with the like wing . Therefore , when he sees reason of fears as we do , his fears , out of doubt , be of the same relish as ours are . Yet , in reason , no man should possess him with any appearance of fear , lest he , by showing it , should dishearten his army .
No , they were well at peace when I did leave ' em .
To be brief , the very truth is that the Jew , having done me wrong , doth cause me , as my father , being , I hope , an old man , shall frutify unto you --
Let me ask you one word in private .
How fares my gracious sir ? There are yet missing of your company Some few odd lads that you remember not .
Aunchient Pistol , I do partly understand your meaning .
Most monstrous , oh ! Know 'st thou this paper ?
Peradventure this is not Fortune 's work neither , but Nature 's , who perceiveth our natural wits too dull to reason of such goddesses , and hath sent this natural for our whetstone , for always the dullness of the fool is the whetstone of the wits . How now , wit , whither wander you ?
they have bought out their services , and now my whole charge consists of ancients , corporals , lieutenants , gentlemen of companies -- slaves as ragged as Lazarus in the painted cloth , where the glutton 's dogs licked his sores ; and such as indeed were never soldiers , but discarded , unjust servingmen , younger sons to younger brothers , revolted tapsters , and ostlers tradefallen , the cankers of a calm world and a long peace , ten times more dishonorable - ragged than an old feazed ancient ; and such have I to fill up the rooms of them that have bought out their services , that you would think that I had a hundred and fifty tattered prodigals lately come from swine - keeping , from eating draff and husks . A mad fellow met me on the way and told me I had unloaded all the gibbets and pressed the dead bodies . No eye hath seen such scarecrows . I 'll not march through Coventry with them , that 's flat . Nay , and the villains march wide betwixt the legs as if they had gyves on , for indeed I had the most of them out of prison . There 's not a shirt and a half in all my company , and the half shirt is two napkins tacked together and thrown over the shoulders like a herald 's coat without sleeves ; and the shirt , to say the truth , stolen from my host at Saint Albans or the red - nose innkeeper of Daventry . But that 's all one ; they 'll find linen enough on every hedge .
What stuff wilt have a kirtle of ? I shall receive money o ' Thursday ; shalt have a cap tomorrow . A merry song ! Come , it grows late . We 'll to bed . Thou ' lt forget me when I am gone .
By Jeshu , I am your Majesty 's countryman , I care not who know it . I will confess it to all the ' orld . I need not to be ashamed of your Majesty , praised be God , so long as your Majesty is an honest man .
And that 's but unwholesome food , they say .
Master , if ever I said " loose - bodied gown , " sew me in the skirts of it , and beat me to death with a bottom of brown thread . I said " a gown . "
Is it not lawful , an please your Majesty , to tell how many is killed ?
You are a villain . I jest not . I will make it good how you dare , with what you dare , and when you dare . Do me right , or I will protest your cowardice . You have killed a sweet lady , and her death shall fall heavy on you . Let me hear from you .
No , indeed , my lord .
As much to him , else is his thanks too much .
Warrant thee , my man 's as true as steel .
Fulvia thy wife is dead .
Call forth an officer .
His nurse ? Why , she was dead ere thou wast born .
I am glad to see you in this merry vein . What means this jest ? I pray you , master , tell me ?
O the father , how he holds his countenance !
I 'll see if I can find out Sneak .
" Dined at home " ? Thou villain , what sayest thou ?
How now , my sweet Bianca ! How now , how now ?
Bless you , fair dame ! I am not to you known , Though in your state of honor I am perfect . I doubt some danger does approach you nearly . If you will take a homely man 's advice , Be not found here . Hence with your little ones . To fright you thus methinks I am too savage ; To do worse to you were fell cruelty , Which is too nigh your person . Heaven preserve you ! I dare abide no longer .
Forbear me till anon . --This wine for Lepidus !
She is indeed perfection .
You speak too bitterly .
Think you there was or might be such a man As this I dreamt of ?
What is this forest called ?
Oh , throw away the worser part of it , And live the purer with the other half . Good night -- but go not to mine uncle' s bed . Assume a virtue if you have it not . That monster , custom , who all sense doth eat , Of habits devil , is angel yet in this : That to the use of actions fair and good He likewise gives a frock or livery That aptly is put on . Refrain tonight , And that shall lend a kind of easiness To the next abstinence , the next more easy .
Farewell , thou woeful welcomer of glory .
Towards Chertsey , noble lord ?
Fates , we will know your pleasures . That we shall die , we know . ' Tis but the time , And drawing days out , that men stand upon .
Didst thou dream , Lucius , that thou so criedst out ?
At my lodging .
Do not you love me ?
I care not for my spirits , if my legs were not weary .
Why the cry goes that you shall marry her .
The bow is bent and drawn . Make from the shaft .
Madam , I wish it may .
God bless your Grace with health and happy days .
A sick man in sadness makes his will , A word ill urged to one that is so ill . In sadness , cousin , I do love a woman .
Master , here 's The gold you sent me for . What , have you got the picture of old Adam new - appareled ?
I hope , for my brother 's justification , he wrote this but as an essay or taste of my virtue .
Give o'er the play .
If you will not murder me for my love , let me be your servant .
Yes , being kept together and put to use .
A ring ! Stand round .
Therefore I took your hands , but was indeed Swayed from the point by looking down on Caesar . Friends am I with you all and love you all Upon this hope : that you shall give me reasons Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous .
Why , Sir John , my face does you no harm .
May be she doth but counterfeit .
I thank you . Here comes the count .
Alack , for pity ! I , not remembering how I cried out then , Will cry it o'er again . It is a hint That wrings mine eyes to ' t .
I am come To bid my king and master aye good night . Is he not here ?
Not I , I must be found . My parts , my title , and my perfect soul Shall manifest me rightly . Is it they ?
Your mistress bears well .
O , ho , entreat her ! Nay , then she must needs come .
What think you , Sir John ? A good - limbed fellow ; young , strong , and of good friends .
Oh , then belike you fancy riches more . You will have Gremio to keep you fair .
What think you , Captain Fluellen , is it fit this soldier keep his oath ?
My lord , from head to foot .
Sir , you shall understand what hath befall'n , Which , as I think , you know not . Here is a letter Found in the pocket of the slain Roderigo , And here another . The one of them imports The death of Cassio to be undertook By Roderigo .
Lord of his fortunes he salutes thee , and Requires to live in Egypt ; which not granted , He lessens his requests , and to thee sues To let him breathe between the heavens and earth A private man in Athens . This for him . Next , Cleopatra does confess thy greatness , Submits her to thy might , and of thee craves The circle of the Ptolemies for her heirs , Now hazarded to thy grace .
Work you , then .
You wronged yourself to write in such a case .
Is now become a god , and Cassius is A wretched creature and must bend his body If Caesar carelessly but nod on him . He had a fever when he was in Spain , And when the fit was on him , I did mark How he did shake . ' Tis true , this god did shake ! His coward lips did from their color fly , And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world Did lose his luster . I did hear him groan , Ay , and that tongue of his that bade the Romans Mark him and write his speeches in their books -- " Alas , " it cried , " give me some drink , Titinius , " As a sick girl . Ye gods , it doth amaze me A man of such a feeble temper should So get the start of the majestic world And bear the palm alone .
And further I have learned , The King himself in person is set forth , Or hitherwards intended speedily , With strong and mighty preparation .
Your servants ever Have theirs , themselves , and what is theirs in compt , To make their audit at your highness ' pleasure , Still to return your own .
My thought , whose murder yet is but fantastical , Shakes so my single state of man That function is smothered in surmise , And nothing is but what is not .
I hope better .
Oh , withered is the garland of the war . The soldier 's pole is fall'n ! Young boys and girls Are level now with men . The odds is gone , And there is nothing left remarkable Beneath the visiting moon .
It must needs be of subtle , tender , and delicate temperance .
Where is thy master , Dromio ? Is he well ?
Go , Peto , to horse , to horse , for thou and I have thirty miles to ride yet ere dinner time .
Bid Mistress Tearsheet come to my master .
Let floods o'erswell and fiends for food howl on !
What thou seest when thou dost wake , Do it for thy true love take . Love and languish for his sake . Be it ounce or cat or bear , Pard or boar with bristled hair , In thy eye that shall appear , When thou wakest , it is thy dear . Wake when some vile thing is near .
You may think I love you not . Let that appear hereafter , and aim better at me by that I now will manifest . For my brother , I think he holds you well , and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect your ensuing marriage -- surely suit ill spent and labor ill bestowed .
Fillet of a fenny snake , In the cauldron boil and bake . Eye of newt and toe of frog , Wool of bat and tongue of dog , Adder 's fork and blind - worm 's sting , Lizard 's leg and owlet 's wing , For a charm of powerful trouble , Like a hell - broth boil and bubble .
Delay not , Caesar . Read it instantly .
Lead me . He goes forth gallantly . That he and Caesar might Determine this great war in single fight ! Then Antony -- but now -- . Well , on .
Amen , amen . But come what sorrow can , It cannot countervail the exchange of joy That one short minute gives me in her sight . Do thou but close our hands with holy words , Then love - devouring death do what he dare ; It is enough I may but call her mine .
For him , I think not on him . For his thoughts , Would they were blanks , rather than fill 'd with me .
I stay too long . But here my father comes . A double blessing is a double grace . Occasion smiles upon a second leave .
Fool , there was never a man so notoriously abused : I am as well in my wits , Fool , as thou art .
Go then , find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and the Count Claudio alone . Tell them that you know that Hero loves me . Intend a kind of zeal both to the Prince and Claudio , as in love of your brother 's honor , who hath made this match , and his friend 's reputation , who is thus like to be cozened with the semblance of a maid , that you have discovered thus . They will scarcely believe this without trial . Offer them instances , which shall bear no less likelihood than to see me at her chamber window , hear me call Margaret " Hero , " hear Margaret term me " Claudio , " and bring them to see this the very night before the intended wedding , for in the meantime I will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be absent , and there shall appear such seeming truth of Hero 's disloyalty that jealousy shall be called assurance and all the preparation overthrown .
I beseech you , punish me not with your hard thoughts , wherein I confess me much guilty to deny so fair and excellent ladies anything . But let your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my trial , wherein , if I be foiled , there is but one shamed that was never gracious ; if killed , but one dead that was willing to be so . I shall do my friends no wrong , for I have none to lament me ; the world no injury , for in it I have nothing . Only in the world I fill up a place which may be better supplied when I have made it empty .
My lord , in Athens .
Why , I am past my gamut long ago .
Do not doubt that . Before Emilia here I give thee warrant of thy place . Assure thee , If I do vow a friendship , I 'll perform it To the last article . My lord shall never rest , I 'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience .
After my death , the one half of my lands , And , in possession , twenty thousand crowns .
So did I too , and he swore he would marry her tonight .
Nay , in all confidence , he 's not for Rhodes .
Marry , sir , nose - painting , sleep , and urine . Lechery , sir , it provokes and unprovokes . It provokes the desire , but it takes away the performance . Therefore , much drink may be said to be an equivocator with lechery . It makes him , and it mars him ; it sets him on , and it takes him off ; it persuades him , and disheartens him ; makes him stand to and not stand to ; in conclusion , equivocates him in a sleep , and , giving him the lie , leaves him .
O sir , very well : here in your orchard .
As I do live , my honored lord , ' tis true . And we did think it writ down in our duty To let you know of it .
The moon shines bright . In such a night as this , When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees And they did make no noise , in such a night Troilus methinks mounted the Trojan walls And sighed his soul toward the Grecian tents Where Cressid lay that night .
I hope he be in love .
O ye gods , Render me worthy of this noble wife !
Why , I said nothing .
What wouldst thou now ? If thou darest tempt me further , draw thy sword .
' Tis beauty truly blent , whose red and white Nature 's own sweet and cunning hand laid on . Lady , you are the cruel 'st she alive If you will lead these graces to the grave And leave the world no copy .
Fie , what a spendthrift is he of his tongue !
Now all the plagues that in the pendulous air Hang fated o'er men 's faults light on thy daughters !
Disprove this villain , if thou be 'st a man . He says thou told 'st him that his wife was false . I know thou didst not , thou'rt not such a villain . Speak , for my heart is full .
Grandam , his nurse .
Alas , Iago , my lord hath so bewhored her , Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her , That true hearts cannot bear it .
How can that be ?
Will you hear ' t again ?
Where America , the Indies ?
No , this was he , Messala , But Cassius is no more . O setting sun , As in thy red rays thou dost sink tonight , So in his red blood Cassius ' day is set . The sun of Rome is set . Our day is gone . Clouds , dews , and dangers come ! Our deeds are done . Mistrust of my success hath done this deed .
I 'll have it so . A little charge will do it .
A bitter fool .
Set him before me . Let me see his face .
And did not she herself revile me there ?
And so the lion vanished .
So . In the name of Jesu Christ , speak fewer . It is the greatest admiration in the universal world when the true and aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the wars is not kept . If you would take the pains but to examine the wars of Pompey the Great , you shall find , I warrant you , that there is no tiddle toddle nor pibble babble in Pompey 's camp . I warrant you , you shall find the ceremonies of the wars and the cares of it and the forms of it and the sobriety of it and the modesty of it to be otherwise .
Nor I neither .
Say , if I do ? The laws are mine , not thine . Who can arraign me for ' t ?
Why , what is that to you ?
They were traitors ! " Honorable men " !
Free from the bondage you are in , Messala . The conquerors can but make a fire of him . For Brutus only overcame himself , And no man else hath honor by his death .
Hopeless and helpless doth Egeon wend , But to procrastinate his lifeless end .
Come , come , thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as any in Italy , and as soon moved to be moody , and as soon moody to be moved .
Grandam , one night as we did sit at supper , My uncle Rivers talked how I did grow More than my brother : " Ay , " quoth my uncle Gloucester , " Small herbs have grace ; great weeds do grow apace . " And since , methinks I would not grow so fast Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste .
' Od 's lifelings , here he is ! --You broke my head for nothing , and that that I did , I was set on to do ' t by Sir Toby .
My lady 's a Cataian . We are politicians , Malvolio 's a Peg - a-Ramsey , and Three merry men be we . --Am not I consanguineous ? Am I not of her blood ? Tillyvally ! " Lady " ! There dwelt a man in Babylon , lady , lady !
And so will I.
Now you see , sir , how your fooling grows old , and people dislike it .
Let Rome in Tiber melt and the wide arch Of the ranged empire fall . Here is my space . Kingdoms are clay . Our dungy earth alike Feeds beast as man . The nobleness of life Is to do thus , when such a mutual pair And such a twain can do ' t , in which I bind , On pain of punishment , the world to weet We stand up peerless .
Gertrude , do not drink .
I pray you , leave me .
Daylight and champaign discovers not more . This is open . I will be proud , I will read politic authors , I will baffle Sir Toby , I will wash off gross acquaintance , I will be point - devise the very man . I do not now fool myself , to let imagination jade me , for every reason excites to this , that my lady loves me . She did commend my yellow stockings of late , she did praise my leg being cross - gartered , and in this she manifests herself to my love , and with a kind of injunction , drives me to these habits of her liking . I thank my stars I am happy . I will be strange , stout , in yellow stockings , and cross - gartered , even with the swiftness of putting on . Jove and my stars be praised ! Here is yet a postscript .
These many , then , shall die . Their names are pricked .
I do beseech you either not believe The envious slanders of her false accusers , Or if she be accused in true report , Bear with her weakness , which I think proceeds From wayward sickness and no grounded malice .
I am your shadow , my lord . I 'll follow you .
Is he pursued ?
If there be any good thing to be done That may to thee do ease and grace to me , Speak to me . If thou art privy to thy country 's fate , Which happily foreknowing may avoid , Oh , speak ! Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life Extorted treasure in the womb of earth , For which , they say , you spirits oft walk in death , Speak of it . Stay and speak !
I am as mad as he , If sad and merry madness equal be .
I do require them of you , so to use them As we shall find their merits and our safety May equally determine .
It is not possible . You have not a man in all Athens able to discharge Pyramus but he .
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother 's death The memory be green , and that it us befitted To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom To be contracted in one brow of woe , Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature That we with wisest sorrow think on him Together with remembrance of ourselves . Therefore our sometime sister , now our queen , Th ' imperial jointress to this warlike state , Have we -- as ' twere with a defeated joy , With an auspicious and a dropping eye , With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage , In equal scale weighing delight and dole -- Taken to wife . Nor have we herein barred Your better wisdoms , which have freely gone With this affair along . For all , our thanks . Now follows that you know . Young Fortinbras , Holding a weak supposal of our worth Or thinking by our late dear brother 's death Our state to be disjoint and out of frame , Colleagued with the dream of his advantage , He hath not failed to pester us with message Importing the surrender of those lands Lost by his father , with all bonds of law , To our most valiant brother . So much for him .
Our very loving sister , well bemet . -- Sir , this I hear : the king is come to his daughter , With others whom the rigor of our state Forced to cry out . Where I could not be honest I never yet was valiant . For this business , It touches us as France invades our land , Not bolds the king , with others whom I fear Most just and heavy causes make oppose .
And I have been all this day to avoid him . He is too disputable for my company . I think of as many matters as he , but I give heaven thanks and make no boast of them . Come , warble , come .
Thou dost , and think 'st it much to tread the ooze Of the salt deep , To run upon the sharp wind of the north , To do me business in the veins o ' th ' earth When it is baked with frost .
If all the year were playing holidays , To sport would be as tedious as to work , But when they seldom come , they wished for come , And nothing pleaseth but rare accidents . So when this loose behavior I throw off And pay the debt I never promised , By how much better than my word I am , By so much shall I falsify men 's hopes ; And , like bright metal on a sullen ground , My reformation , glitt'ring o'er my fault , Shall show more goodly and attract more eyes Than that which hath no foil to set it off . I 'll so offend to make offense a skill , Redeeming time when men think least I will .
Come , shall we hear this music ?
Arm you , I pray you , to this speedy voyage . For we will fetters put upon this fear , Which now goes too free - footed .
Ride , ride , Messala , ride , and give these bills Unto the legions on the other side .
Lady , what man is he you are accused of ?
Excellent ! Why , this is the best fooling when all is done . Now , a song .
Now mother , what 's the matter ?
Her father is Baptista Minola , An affable and courteous gentleman . Her name is Katherina Minola , Renowned in Padua for her scolding tongue .
Are they good ?
You have displaced the mirth , broke the good meeting , With most admired disorder .
What should be spoken here , where our fate , Hid in an auger - hole , may rush and seize us ? Let 's away . Our tears are not yet brewed .
Nay , then , ' tis time to stir him from his trance . -- I pray , awake , sir ! If you love the maid , Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her . Thus it stands : Her eldest sister is so curst and shrewd That till the father rid his hands of her , Master , your love must live a maid at home , And therefore has he closely mewed her up , Because she will not be annoyed with suitors .
Let her have your voice . Vouch with me , heaven , I therefore beg it not To please the palate of my appetite ,
You wrong me , Signior Gremio . Give me leave . -- I am a gentleman of Verona , sir , That hearing of her beauty and her wit , Her affability and bashful modesty , Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior , Am bold to show myself a forward guest Within your house , to make mine eye the witness Of that report which I so oft have heard . And , for an entrance to my entertainment , I do present you with a man of mine , Cunning in music and the mathematics , To instruct her fully in those sciences , Whereof I know she is not ignorant . Accept of him , or else you do me wrong . His name is Litio , born in Mantua .
Marry , it is your brother 's right hand .
This , Casca . This , Cinna . And this , Metellus Cimber .
To know my errand , madam .
Now , herald , are the dead numbered ?
Ay , marry , is ' t . Crowner 's quest law .
If I owe you anything , I will pay you in cudgels . You shall be a woodmonger and buy nothing of me but cudgels . God be wi ' you and keep you and heal your pate .
What company ?
Good now , hold thy tongue .
A bloody deed ? Almost as bad , good mother , As kill a king and marry with his brother .
To do what ?
The former Hero ! Hero that is dead !
It is Brabantio . General , be advised , He comes to bad intent .
You keep by land The legions and the horse whole , do you not ?
Do you not remember he saw a flea stick upon Bardolph 's nose , and he said it was a black soul burning in hell ?
The loss of such a lord includes all harms .
Of thinking too precisely on th ' event -- A thought which , quartered , hath but one part wisdom And ever three parts coward --I do not know Why yet I live to say " This thing 's to do , " Sith I have cause and will and strength and means To do ' t . Examples gross as earth exhort me . Witness this army of such mass and charge Led by a delicate and tender prince , Whose spirit with divine ambition puffed Makes mouths at the invisible event , Exposing what is mortal and unsure To all that fortune , death , and danger dare , Even for an eggshell . Rightly to be great Is not to stir without great argument , But greatly to find quarrel in a straw When honor 's at the stake . How stand I then , That have a father killed , a mother stained , Excitements of my reason and my blood , And let all sleep -- while , to my shame , I see The imminent death of twenty thousand men , That for a fantasy and trick of fame Go to their graves like beds , fight for a plot Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause , Which is not tomb enough and continent To hide the slain ? Oh , from this time forth , My thoughts be bloody , or be nothing worth !
These be good humors . Your Honor wins bad humors .
The Count is neither sad , nor sick , nor merry , nor well , but civil count , civil as an orange , and something of that jealous complexion .
Fear you not that . If we can make our peace Upon such large terms and so absolute As our conditions shall consist upon , Our peace shall stand as firm as rocky mountains .
Titinius , if thou lovest me , Mount thou my horse , and hide thy spurs in him Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops And here again , that I may rest assured Whether yond troops are friend or enemy .
Know of the duke if his last purpose hold , Or whether since he is advised by aught To change the course . He 's full of alteration And self - reproving . Bring his constant pleasure .
Mine , and most of our fortunes tonight , shall be --drunk to bed .
Oh , treacherous villains ! -- What are you there ? Come in , and give some help .
What think you of this fool , Malvolio ? Doth he not mend ?
We are sent To give thee from our royal master thanks , Only to herald thee into his sight , Not pay thee .
Master young gentleman , I pray you , which is the way to Master Jew 's ?
I must believe my master ; else , I promise you , I should be arguing still upon that doubt . But let it rest . --Now , Litio , to you . Good master , take it not unkindly , pray , That I have been thus pleasant with you both .
Show 's the way , sir .
Well , march we on , To give obedience where ' tis truly owed . Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal , And with him pour we in our country 's purge Each drop of us .
It is , my lord .
What a sigh is there ! The heart is sorely charged .
I pray you do .
O , for my beads ! I cross me for a sinner . This is the fairy land . O spite of spites !
Keep promise , love . Look , here comes Helena .
Hush !
God ' i ' good e' en . I pray , sir , can you read ?
For all the world As thou art to this hour was Richard then When I from France set foot at Ravenspurgh , And even as I was then is Percy now .
Who is conductor of his people ?
Come , come , we are friends . Let 's have a dance ere we are married , that we may lighten our own hearts and our wives ' heels .
Can it be possible that no man saw them ? It cannot be . Some villains of my court Are of consent and sufferance in this .
You see how full of changes his age is . The observation we have made of it hath not been little . He always loved our sister most , and with what poor judgment he hath now cast her off appears too grossly .
Even when you please , since you will have it so .
How now , Lord Stanley , what 's the news ?
I warrant him , Petruchio is Kated .
But where is he ?
My other self , my council 's consistory , My oracle , my prophet , my dear cousin , I , as a child , will go by thy direction Toward Ludlow then , for we 'll not stay behind .
O base Assyrian knight , what is thy news ? Let King Cophetua know the truth thereof .
Why then , lead on . Oh , that a man might know The end of this day 's business ere it come ! But it sufficeth that the day will end , And then the end is known . --Come , ho ! Away !
Do you mark that , my lord ?
Farewell , for I must leave you . It seems not meet , nor wholesome to my place , To be producted Against the Moor . For I do know the state Cannot with safety cast him , for he 's embarked With such loud reason to the Cyprus wars that , for their souls , Another of his fathom they have none To lead their business . In which regard ,
Those same noble Scots That are your prisoners --
The son and heir of old Tiberio .
What dost thou say ?
You speak not as you think . It cannot be .
No , not a denier . Go by , Saint Jeronimy . Go to thy cold bed and warm thee .
It is a fault that springeth from your eye .
Let us not leave him out .
William , sir .
' Tis no matter . Ne'er a fantastical knave of them all shall flout me out of my calling .
How can this be ?
Dites - moi l' anglais pour le bras .
See , who comes here ?
Marry , so it doth appear By the wrongs I suffer and the blows I bear . I should kick being kicked ; and , being at that pass , You would keep from my heels and beware of an ass .
What likelihood of his amendment , lords ?
What impossible matter will he make easy next ?
Have I thought long to see this morning 's face , And doth it give me such a sight as this ?
Here 's my son , sir , a poor boy --
Ye elves of hills , brooks , standing lakes , and groves , And ye that on the sands with printless foot Do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him When he comes back ; you demi - puppets that By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make , Whereof the ewe not bites ; and you whose pastime Is to make midnight mushrooms , that rejoice To hear the solemn curfew ; by whose aid , Weak masters though ye be , I have bedimmed The noontide sun , called forth the mutinous winds , And ' twixt the green sea and the azured vault Set roaring war -- to th ' dread rattling thunder Have I given fire , and rifted Jove 's stout oak
Even such a husband Hast thou of me as she is for a wife .
Ay , lady , ' twas my word .
My husband ?
Oh , thereby hangs a tail .
Now fair befall you ! He deserved his death , And your good Graces both have well proceeded To warn false traitors from the like attempts .
It is .
God bless thee , and put meekness in thy breast , Love , charity , obedience , and true duty .
Even she : Leonato 's Hero , your Hero , every man 's Hero .
Had I three ears , I 'd hear thee .
What sayest thou ?
I am sick and sullen .
Get you all three into the boxtree . Malvolio 's coming down this walk . He has been yonder i ' the sun practising behavior to his own shadow this half hour . Observe him , for the love of mockery , for I know this letter will make a contemplative idiot of him . Close , in the name of jesting !
Thou makest me merry . I am full of pleasure . Let us be jocund . Will you troll the catch You taught me but whilere ?
Nay , but I bar tonight . You shall not gauge me By what we do tonight .
Ay , noble lord .
But have I not cause to weep ?
I have a daughter , sir , called Katherina .
No slander . They steal hearts .
Villainy , villainy , villainy ! I think upon ' t , I think I smell ' t , Oh , villainy ! I thought so then , I 'll kill myself for grief . Oh , villainy , villainy !
No matter whither , so you come not here .
Ay , leeks is good . Hold you , there is a groat to heal your pate .
Oh , that exceeds , they say .
A very pleasing night to honest men .
A proclaimed prize ! Most happy ! That eyeless head of thine was first framed flesh To raise my fortunes . Thou old unhappy traitor , Briefly thyself remember . The sword is out That must destroy thee .
Do you not hear him ? You mar our labor . Keep your cabins . You do assist the storm .
Hugh Otecake , sir , or George Seacole , for they can write and read .
Is this well spoken now ?
With half that wish the wisher 's eyes be pressed !
It shall be done , my lord .
Ay , when , canst tell ? " Lend me thy lantern , " quoth he . Marry , I 'll see thee hanged first .
Hear me a word , For I shall never speak to thee again .
Ho , Guildenstern ! Bring in my lord .
A virtuous and a Christian - like conclusion To pray for them that have done scathe to us .
There is no woman 's sides Can bide the beating of so strong a passion As love doth give my heart . No woman 's heart So big , to hold so much . They lack retention . Alas , their love may be called appetite , No motion of the liver , but the palate , That suffer surfeit , cloyment , and revolt ; But mine is all as hungry as the sea , And can digest as much . Make no compare Between that love a woman can bear me And that I owe Olivia .
Good counsel , marry . --Learn it , learn it , marquess .
Farewell , my lord . What you shall know meantime Of stirs abroad , I shall beseech you , sir , To let me be partaker .
Come thy ways , Signior Fabian .
His very genius hath taken the infection of the device , man .
She shall , Lucentio . Come , gentlemen , let 's go .
Have at you now !
I am glad to see your Worship .
Since my young lady 's going into France , sir , the fool hath much pined away .
Upon a lie seven times removed . --Bear your body more seeming , Audrey . --As thus , sir : I did dislike the cut of a certain courtier 's beard . He sent me word if I said his beard was not cut well , he was in the mind it was . This is called " the retort courteous . " If I sent him word again it was not well cut , he would send me word he cut it to please himself . This is called " the quip modest . " If again it was not well cut , he disabled my judgment . This is called " the reply churlish . " If again it was not well cut , he would answer I spake not true . This is called " the reproof valiant . " If again it was not well cut , he would say I lie . This is called " the countercheck quarrelsome , " and so to " the lie circumstantial " and " the lie direct . "
I have procured thee , Jack , a charge of foot .
Romeo .
To flatter Caesar , would you mingle eyes With one that ties his points ?
Time shall unfold what plighted cunning hides , Who covers faults at last with shame derides . Well may you prosper .
I have lost my hopes .
And teach lavoltas high , and swift corantos , Saying our grace is only in our heels And that we are most lofty runaways . They bid us to the English dancing schools .
Marry , sir , I would have some confidence with you that decerns you nearly .
No more than I am well acquitted of .
Art not thou the Lady Olivia 's fool ?
I will not sing .
All take hands . Make battery to our ears with the loud music , The while I 'll place you ; then the boy shall sing . The holding every man shall beat as loud As his strong sides can volley .
Who , I ? I have been merry twice and once ere now .
Why , what should be the fear ? I do not set my life in a pin 's fee , And for my soul -- what can it do to that , Being a thing immortal as itself ? It waves me forth again . I 'll follow it .
Hark , hark , I hear him , mistress . Fly , begone !
' Tis e' en so . The hand of little employment hath the daintier sense .
Drink , servant - monster , when I bid thee . Thy eyes are almost set in thy head .
Go make thyself like a nymph o ' th ' sea . Be subject To no sight but thine and mine , invisible To every eyeball else . Go take this shape And hither come in ' t . Go hence with diligence .
Is she not a modest young lady ?
I do confess my fault , And do submit me to Your Highness ' mercy .
My Lord Bassanio , let him have the ring . Let his deservings and my love withal Be valued against your wife 's commandment .
What man dare , I dare . Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear , The armed rhinoceros , or th ' Hyrcan tiger ; Take any shape but that , and my firm nerves Shall never tremble . Or be alive again , And dare me to the desert with thy sword . If trembling I inhabit then , protest me The baby of a girl . Hence , horrible shadow ! Unreal mockery , hence !
We left the Prince my brother here , my liege , Who undertook to sit and watch by you .
Affection ! Pooh , you speak like a green girl , Unsifted in such perilous circumstance . Do you believe his " tenders , " as you call them ?
O , never Shall sun that morrow see ! Your face , my thane , is as a book where men May read strange matters . To beguile the time , Look like the time . Bear welcome in your eye , Your hand , your tongue . Look like th ' innocent flower , But be the serpent under ' t . He that 's coming Must be provided for ; and you shall put This night 's great business into my dispatch , Which shall to all our nights and days to come Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom .
I must obey . This comes with seeking you : But there 's no remedy . I shall answer it .
But for the seventh cause . How did you find the quarrel on the seventh cause ?
Quick , quick , good hands .
Therefore doth heaven divide The state of man in diverse functions , Setting endeavor in continual motion , To which is fixed as an aim or butt Obedience ; for so work the honeybees , Creatures that by a rule in nature teach The act of order to a peopled kingdom . They have a king and officers of sorts , Where some like magistrates correct at home , Others like merchants venture trade abroad , Others like soldiers armed in their stings Make boot upon the summer 's velvet buds , Which pillage they with merry march bring home To the tent royal of their emperor , Who , busied in his majesty , surveys The singing masons building roofs of gold , The civil citizens kneading up the honey , The poor mechanic porters crowding in Their heavy burdens at his narrow gate , The sad-eyed justice with his surly hum Delivering o'er to executors pale The lazy yawning drone . I this infer : That many things , having full reference To one consent , may work contrariously , As many arrows loosed several ways Come to one mark , as many ways meet in one town , As many fresh streams meet in one salt sea , As many lines close in the dial 's center , So may a thousand actions , once afoot , End in one purpose , and be all well borne Without defeat . Therefore to France , my liege ! Divide your happy England into four , Whereof take you one quarter into France , And you withal shall make all Gallia shake .
I hope my noble lord esteems me honest .
Let our best heads Know that tomorrow the last of many battles We mean to fight . Within our files there are , Of those that served Mark Antony but late , Enough to fetch him in . See it done And feast the army . We have store to do ' t , And they have earned the waste . Poor Antony !
Love wrought these miracles . Bianca 's love Made me exchange my state with Tranio , While he did bear my countenance in the town , And happily I have arrived at the last Unto the wished haven of my bliss . What Tranio did , myself enforced him to . Then pardon him , sweet father , for my sake .
Why , what 's the matter ? Does he rave ?
Mine , sir .
Call in the powers , good cousin Westmoreland .
Let me sit down . O Juno !
Upon condition Publius shall not live , Who is your sister 's son , Mark Antony .
O bon Dieu ! Les langues des hommes sont pleines de tromperies .
Take no offense that I would not offend you . To punish me for what you make me do Seems much unequal . He 's married to Octavia .
Widow ! A pox o ' that ! How came that " widow " in ? Widow Dido !
I 'll warrant him for drowning though the ship were no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an unstanched wench .
My mother 's son , sir .
Truly , the hearts of men are full of fear . Ye cannot reason almost with a man That looks not heavily and full of dread .
We fail ? But screw your courage to the sticking - place , And we 'll not fail . When Duncan is asleep -- Whereto the rather shall his day 's hard journey Soundly invite him -- his two chamberlains Will I with wine and wassail so convince That memory , the warder of the brain , Shall be a fume , and the receipt of reason A limbeck only : when in swinish sleep Their drenched natures lie as in a death , What cannot you and I perform upon The unguarded Duncan ? What not put upon His spongy officers , who shall bear the guilt Of our great quell ?
Lead me , my lord ? I do not need your help , And God forbid a shallow scratch should drive The Prince of Wales from such a field as this , Where stained nobility lies trodden on , And rebels ' arms triumph in massacres .
The king hath note of all that they intend , By interception which they dream not of .
Sweet soul , take heed , take heed of perjury . Thou art on thy deathbed .
I think this tale would win my daughter too . Good Brabantio . Take up this mangled matter at the best . Men do their broken weapons rather use Than their bare hands .
And so am I , being else by faith enforced To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it .
Take them away .
God be wi ' you , sir .
Was not Count John here at supper ?
Sweet prince , the untainted virtue of your years Hath not yet dived into the world 's deceit ; Nor more can you distinguish of a man Than of his outward show , which , God He knows , Seldom or never jumpeth with the heart . Those uncles which you want were dangerous . Your Grace attended to their sugared words But looked not on the poison of their hearts . God keep you from them , and from such false friends .
If sight and shape be true , Why then , my love adieu .
Well , good night . If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus , The rivals of my watch , bid them make haste .
Should you do so , my lord , My speech should fall into such vile success Which my thoughts aimed not at . Cassio 's my worthy friend -- My lord , I see you 're moved .
I would Wart might have gone , sir .
I understand thy looks . That pretty Welsh Which thou pourest down from these swelling heavens I am too perfect in , and but for shame In such a parley should I answer thee .
Oh , monstrous act !
That she 's the chosen of Signior Hortensio .
Here 's no knavery ! See , to beguile the old folks , how the young folks lay their heads together !
I am dying , Egypt , dying . Give me some wine and let me speak a little .
Three proper young men of excellent growth and presence .
And yet I must . --Bless thy sweet eyes , they bleed .
Good morrow , Richmond .
C' est bien dit , madame . Il est fort bon anglais .
Sir , he answered me in the roundest manner he would not .
Good morrow , my good lords .
I would not for the world they saw thee here .
Oh , ten times faster Venus ' pigeons fly To seal love 's bonds new made than they are wont To keep obliged faith unforfeited .
Well run , Thisbe !
He is simply the most active gentleman of France .
Now does my project gather to a head . My charms crack not , my spirits obey , and time Goes upright with his carriage . How 's the day ?
I know not , lady .
Who serv 'st thou under ?
O dear discretion , how his words are suited ! The fool hath planted in his memory An army of good words , and I do know A many fools that stand in better place , Garnished like him , that for a tricksy word Defy the matter . How cheerest thou , Jessica ? And now , good sweet , say thy opinion . How dost thou like the Lord Bassanio 's wife ?
I blame you not , For , hearing this , I must perforce compound With mistful eyes , or they will issue too .
Go to , farewell . Do you hear , Roderigo ?
Though his bark cannot be lost , Yet it shall be tempest - tossed . Look what I have .
Menas , I 'll not on shore .
A most wicked Sir Oliver , Audrey , a most vile Martext . But , Audrey , there is a youth here in the forest lays claim to you .
Hold up thy head , vile Scot , or thou art like Never to hold it up again . The spirits Of valiant Shirley , Stafford , Blunt are in my arms . It is the Prince of Wales that threatens thee , Who never promiseth but he means to pay .
Abide me , if thou darest ! For well I wot Thou runn 'st before me , shifting every place , And darest not stand nor look me in the face . Where art thou now ?
By Jupiter , I swear " No. "
Go seek him there .
Here comes another troop to seek for you .
Sir , he may live . I saw him beat the surges under him , And ride upon their backs . He trod the water , Whose enmity he flung aside , and breasted The surge most swoll'n that met him . His bold head ' Bove the contentious waves he kept , and oared Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke To th ' shore , that o'er his wave - worn basis bowed , As stooping to relieve him . I not doubt He came alive to land .
I could not stay behind you . My desire , More sharp than filed steel , did spur me forth . And not all love to see you , though so much As might have drawn one to a longer voyage , But jealousy what might befall your travel , Being skilless in these parts , which to a stranger , Unguided and unfriended , often prove Rough and unhospitable . My willing love , The rather by these arguments of fear , Set forth in your pursuit .
Charles , I thank thee for thy love to me , which thou shalt find I will most kindly requite . I had myself notice of my brother 's purpose herein and have by underhand means labored to dissuade him from it ; but he is resolute . I 'll tell thee , Charles : it is the stubbornest young fellow of France , full of ambition , an envious emulator of every man 's good parts , a secret and villainous contriver against me his natural brother . Therefore use thy discretion . I had as lief thou didst break his neck as his finger . And thou wert best look to ' t , for if thou dost him any slight disgrace or if he do not mightily grace himself on thee , he will practice against thee by poison , entrap thee by some treacherous device and never leave thee till he hath ta'en thy life by some indirect means or other . For I assure thee -- and almost with tears I speak it -- there is not one so young and so villainous this day living . I speak but brotherly of him , but should I anatomize him to thee as he is , I must blush and weep , and thou must look pale and wonder .
Our fortune on the sea is out of breath And sinks most lamentably . Had our general Been what he knew himself , it had gone well . Oh , he has given example for our flight Most grossly by his own !
Ha ?
And I for no woman .
Is he not jealous ?
Shall I bid him go ?
If she should break it now !
In troth , I think I should , and undo ' t when I had done . Marry , I would not do such a thing for a joint - ring , nor for measures of lawn , nor for gowns , petticoats , nor caps , nor any petty exhibition . But for the whole world ? Why , who would not make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch ? I should venture purgatory for ' t .
For Michael Cassio , I dare be sworn , I think , that he is honest .
Not now .
Well , well , well .
Wherefore to Dover , sir ?
He found it then , I never gave it him . Send for him hither , Let him confess a truth .
Good morrow , Caesar .
Worse and worse !
What news , my lord ?
But men are men , the best sometimes forget . Though Cassio did some little wrong to him , As men in rage strike those that wish them best , Yet surely Cassio , I believe , received From him that fled some strange indignity Which patience could not pass .
So much the worse if your own rule be true .
Good Sir Toby !
There !
You think of him too much .
Why , I am sorry for thee , gentle Silvius .
Do , my lord .
I embrace it freely , And will this brother 's wager frankly play . -- Give us the foils . Come on .
Fair lovers , you are fortunately met . Of this discourse we more will hear anon . -- Egeus , I will overbear your will . For in the temple by and by with us These couples shall eternally be knit . -- And , for the morning now is something worn , Our purposed hunting shall be set aside . Away with us to Athens . Three and three , We 'll hold a feast in great solemnity . Come , Hippolyta .
Help me hence , ho !
We must not . A noble prisoner !
Where 's Dolabella , To second Proculeius ?
But with much forcing of his disposition .
Then will two at once woo one . That must needs be sport alone . And those things do best please me That befall preposterously .
The most infectious pestilence upon thee !
I heard him swear his affection .
How tartly that gentleman looks ! I never can see him but I am heartburned an hour after .
I see these witches are afraid of swords .
Faith , here it is . Romeo is banished , and all the world to nothing That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you . Or , if he do , it needs must be by stealth . Then , since the case so stands as now it doth , I think it best you married with the county . Oh , he 's a lovely gentleman . Romeo 's a dishclout to him . An eagle , madam , Hath not so green , so quick , so fair an eye As Paris hath . Beshrew my very heart , I think you are happy in this second match , For it excels your first . Or if it did not , Your first is dead , or ' twere as good he were , As living here and you no use of him .
Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach ? Speak , nephew . Were you by when it began ?
Go apart , Adam , and thou shalt hear how he will shake me up .
Disloyal ?
O unhappy youth , Come not within these doors . Within this roof The enemy of all your graces lives . Your brother -- no , no brother -- yet the son -- Yet not the son , I will not call him son -- Of him I was about to call his father Hath heard your praises , and this night he means To burn the lodging where you use to lie , And you within it . If he fail of that , He will have other means to cut you off . I overheard him and his practices . This is no place , this house is but a butchery . Abhor it , fear it , do not enter it .
He is drunk now . Where had he wine ?
I shall obey you . And for your part , Ophelia , I do wish That your good beauties be the happy cause Of Hamlet 's wildness . So shall I hope your virtues Will bring him to his wonted way again , To both your honors .
What 's the matter ?
Consort ? What , dost thou make us minstrels ? An thou make minstrels of us , look to hear nothing but discords . Here 's my fiddlestick . Here 's that shall make you dance . Zounds , " consort " !
The gain I seek is quiet in the match .
Poor Desdemon ! I am glad thy father 's dead , Thy match was mortal to him , and pure grief Shore his old thread in twain . Did he live now ,
But say , what to thine old news ?
He cannot live , I hope , and must not die Till George be packed with post - horse up to heaven . I 'll in to urge his hatred more to Clarence With lies well steeled with weighty arguments , And , if I fail not in my deep intent , Clarence hath not another day to live ; Which done , God take King Edward to His mercy , And leave the world for me to bustle in . For then I 'll marry Warwick 's youngest daughter . What though I killed her husband and her father ? The readiest way to make the wench amends Is to become her husband and her father ; The which will I , not all so much for love As for another secret close intent By marrying her which I must reach unto . But yet I run before my horse to market . Clarence still breathes ; Edward still lives and reigns . When they are gone , then must I count my gains .
Who stays it still withal ?
I will chide no breather in the world but myself , against whom I know most faults .
Captain , I thee beseech to do me favors . The duke of Exeter doth love thee well .
Fly , my lord , fly .
Withdraw yourself awhile . I 'll go with you .
Out , you rogue . --Play out the play . I have much to say in the behalf of that Falstaff .
Let our just censures Attend the true event , and put we on Industrious soldiership .
Madam !
Where wilt thou lead me ? Speak , I 'll go no further .
Frateretto calls me and tells me Nero is an angler in the lake of darkness . Pray , innocent , and beware the foul fiend .
Oui . Sauf votre honneur , en verite , vous prononcez les mots aussi droit que les natifs d' Angleterre .
Madam , withdraw : the Prince , the Count , Signor Benedick , Don John , and all the gallants of the town are come to fetch you to church .
Gremio , ' tis now no time to vent our love . Listen to me , and if you speak me fair , I 'll tell you news indifferent good for either .
What , what ? Nay , then I must have an ounce or two of this malapert blood from you .
What man is that ?
Not I , my lord , unless I did bleed too .
Let him alone , for I remember now How he 's employed . He shall in time be ready . Go with me to my tent , where you shall see How hardly I was drawn into this war , How calm and gentle I proceeded still In all my writings . Go with me and see What I can show in this .
They would be better if well followed .
O Lord , I would it had been two !
Wrinkles forbid !
Not to kill him , having a warrant , but to be damned for killing him , from the which no warrant can defend me .
He sure means brevity in breath , short - winded .
Wherefore ? For my dinner . I have not dined today .
Come down , behold no more . Oh , coward that I am , to live so long To see my best friend ta'en before my face !
Pray thee , go seek him , and bring him to my tent .
O my good master !
You pay him then . That 's a perilous shot out of an elder gun , that a poor and private displeasure can do against a monarch . You may as well go about to turn the sun to ice with fanning in his face with a peacock 's feather . You 'll " never trust his word after . " Come , ' tis a foolish saying .
Madam , there is at the gate a young gentleman much desires to speak with you .
Yea , for obtaining of suits , whereof the hangman hath no lean wardrobe . ' Sblood , I am as melancholy as a gib cat or a lugged bear .
Where is Antony ?
You have good judgment in horsemanship .
And never could maintain his part but in the force of his will .
My business cannot brook this dalliance . Good sir , say whe'er you 'll answer me or no . If not , I 'll leave him to the Officer .
Shall I prick him , sir ?
Nothing , good monsieur , but to help Cavalery Cobweb to scratch . I must to the barber 's , monsieur , for methinks I am marvelous hairy about the face . And I am such a tender ass , if my hair do but tickle me , I must scratch .
Ay , but to lose our bottles in the pool --
I 'll try you on the shore .
And here I take the like unfeigned oath Never to marry with her , though she would entreat . Fie on her ! See how beastly she doth court him !
Do you see yonder cloud that 's almost in shape of a camel ?
Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor .
Whither goest thou ?
I do not like " But yet . " It does allay The good precedence . Fie upon " But yet . " " But yet " is as a jailer to bring forth Some monstrous malefactor . Prithee , friend , Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear , The good and bad together . He 's friends with Caesar , In state of health , thou say'st , and , thou say'st , free .
Most noble Caesar ! We 'll revenge his death .
I 'll go along , no such sight to be shown , But to rejoice in splendor of mine own .
' Tis very true .
Good my lord , be good to me . I beseech you stand to me .
How poor are they that have not patience ! What wound did ever heal but by degrees ? Thou know 'st we work by wit and not by witchcraft , And wit depends on dilatory time . Does't not go well ? Cassio hath beaten thee . And thou , by that small hurt , hath cashiered Cassio . Though other things grow fair against the sun , Yet fruits that blossom first will first be ripe . Content thyself awhile . In troth , ' tis morning . Pleasure and action make the hours seem short . Retire thee , go where thou art billeted . Away , I say , thou shalt know more hereafter . Nay , get thee gone .
This is as ' t should be . --Let me see the county . Ay , marry , go , I say , and fetch him hither . -- Now , afore God , this reverend holy friar ! Our whole city is much bound to him .
Whate'er I read to her , I 'll plead for you As for my patron , stand you so assured , As firmly as yourself were still in place , Yea , and perhaps with more successful words Than you , unless you were a scholar , sir .
The hour steals on . I pray you , sir , dispatch .
Thou wert but a lost monster .
Very like a whale .
Lady Beatrice , have you wept all this while ?
Is it upon record , or else reported Successively from age to age , he built it ?
Has not the boy profited ?
Could my good brother suffer you to do it -- A man , a prince by him so benefited ? If that the heavens do not their visible spirits Send quickly down to tame these vile offenses , It will come : Humanity must perforce prey on itself Like monsters of the deep .
Let it be so . Good night to every one . -- And , noble signior , If virtue no delighted beauty lack , Your son-in-law is far more fair than black .
Nay , then , thou mock 'st me . Thou shalt buy this dear If ever I thy face by daylight see . Now go thy way . Faintness constraineth me To measure out my length on this cold bed . By day 's approach look to be visited .
Sir , will you , with those infirmities she owes -- Unfriended , new adopted to our hate , Dowered with our curse and strangered with our oath -- Take her or leave her ?
Will it not be ? Faith , sirrah , an you 'll not knock , I 'll ring it . I 'll try how you can sol , fa , and sing it .
Oh , this is it that makes your servants droop !
Caesar sends greeting to the Queen of Egypt , And bids thee study on what fair demands Thou mean 'st to have him grant thee .
My lord , your promise for the earldom --
But while I say one prayer !
Ay , brother , to our grief , as it is yours . Too late he died that might have kept that title , Which by his death hath lost much majesty .
For you know , nuncle , The hedge - sparrow fed the cuckoo so long , That it 's had it head bit off by it young . So out went the candle and we were left darkling .
On , on , on , on , on ! To the breach , to the breach !
O worthy fool ! --One that hath been a courtier And says , " If ladies be but young and fair , They have the gift to know it . " And in his brain , Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit After a voyage , he hath strange places crammed With observation , the which he vents In mangled forms . Oh , that I were a fool ! I am ambitious for a motley coat .
Farewell , good Messala . -- Good night , Titinius . --Noble , noble Cassius , Good night and good repose .
Nay , indeed if you had your eyes , you might fail of the knowing me . It is a wise father that knows his own child . Well , old man , I will tell you news of your son . Give me your blessing . Truth will come to light . Murder cannot be hid long -- a man 's son may , but in the end truth will out .
Not so well appareled as I wish you were .
N' avez vous pas deja oublie ce que je vous ai enseigne ?
My worthy lord , Your noble friends do lack you .
Not he . The Queen .
Even so . What are you ?
Is ' t so ? Why then , say an old man can do somewhat .
Thou hast her , France . Let her be thine , for we Have no such daughter , nor shall ever see That face of hers again . Therefore be gone Without our grace , our love , our benison . -- Come , noble Burgundy .
Then at my lodging , an it like you . There doth my father lie , and there this night We 'll pass the business privately and well . Send for your daughter by your servant here . My boy shall fetch the scrivener presently . The worst is this , that at so slender warning You are like to have a thin and slender pittance .
Look whe'er the withered elder hath not his poll clawed like a parrot .
Hold your hand , my lord ! I have served you ever since I was a child . But better service have I never done you Than now to bid you hold .
But what trade art thou ? Answer me directly .
There is thy gold , worse poison to men 's souls , Doing more murder in this loathsome world , Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell . I sell thee poison . Thou hast sold me none . Farewell . Buy food , and get thyself in flesh . -- Come , cordial and not poison , go with me To Juliet 's grave , for there must I use thee .
You rogue , here 's lime in this sack too . --There is nothing but roguery to be found in villanous man , yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime in it . A villanous coward ! Go thy ways , old Jack . Die when thou wilt . If manhood , good manhood , be not forgot upon the face of the earth , then am I a shotten herring . There lives not three good men unhanged in England , and one of them is fat and grows old , God help the while . A bad world , I say . I would I were a weaver . I could sing psalms , or anything . A plague of all cowards , I say still .
Here comes the king , The queen , the courtiers -- who is this they follow , And with such maimed rites ? This doth betoken The corse they follow did with desperate hand Fordo its own life . ' Twas of some estate . Couch we a while and mark .
But who was this ?
Pray thee go down , good ancient .
I will not give my part of this sport for a pension of thousands to be paid from the Sophy .
I shall have my noble ?
This is most strange , That she that even but now was your best object -- The argument of your praise , balm of your age , Most best , most dearest -- should in this trice of time
I think so too .
" M " --Malvolio . " M " -- why , that begins my name .
There is example for ' t . The lady of the Strachy married the yeoman of the wardrobe .
Your children shall be kings .
If I were bound to divine of this unity , I would not prophesy so .
O Charmian , I will never go from hence .
Stand thee close , then , under this penthouse , for it drizzles rain , and I will , like a true drunkard , utter all to thee .
Then I will give you the serving creature .
O , let me speak !
And then to have the humor of state , and after a demure travel of regard , telling them I know my place as I would they should do theirs , to ask for my kinsman Toby --
How malicious is my fortune , that I must repent to be just ! This is the letter which he spoke of , which approves him an intelligent party to the advantages of France . O heavens , that this treason were not , or not I the detector !
No , not tonight .
Prospero my lord shall know what I have done . So , King , go safely on to seek thy son .
If we , with thrice such powers left at home , Cannot defend our own doors from the dog , Let us be worried , and our nation lose The name of hardiness and policy .
Captain Fluellen , you must come presently to the mines ; the duke of Gloucester would speak with you .
Whenas your husband all in rage today Came to my house and took away my ring , The ring I saw upon his finger now , Straight after did I meet him with a chain .
You have stayed me in a happy hour . I was about to protest I loved you .
Not black in my mind , though yellow in my legs . It did come to his hands , and commands shall be executed . I think we do know the sweet Roman hand .
Why , then he 'll say we stabbed him sleeping .
Well , I will thither .
I am not treacherous .
Amen .
I humbly thank you for't .
Tell me in sadness , who is that you love .
The morn is fair . Good morrow , General .
Be this the whetstone of your sword . Let grief Convert to anger . Blunt not the heart , enrage it .
I fear my Thisbe 's promise is forgot ! -- And thou , O Wall , O sweet , O lovely Wall , That stand 'st between her father 's ground and mine . Thou Wall , O Wall , O sweet and lovely Wall , Show me thy chink to blink through with mine eyne !
This a dull sight . Are you not Kent ?
But I can give thee more , For I will raise her statue in pure gold , That whiles Verona by that name is known , There shall no figure at such rate be set As that of true and faithful Juliet .
Mistress , dispatch you with your safest haste , And get you from our court .
Flat burglary as ever was committed .
I know not , madam . ' Tis too bad , too bad .
That 's my brave lord !
And Hippolyta .
Why , then you must . But hear thee , Gratiano . Thou art too wild , too rude and bold of voice -- Parts that become thee happily enough And in such eyes as ours appear not faults . But where thou art not known , why , there they show Something too liberal . Pray thee , take pain To allay with some cold drops of modesty Thy skipping spirit , lest through thy wild behavior I be misconst'red in the place I go to , And lose my hopes .
A piece of work that will make sick men whole .
Yea , or else it were pity but they should suffer salvation , body and soul .
He does confess he feels himself distracted . But from what cause he will by no means speak .
The weary sun hath made a golden set , And by the bright track of his fiery car , Gives token of a goodly day tomorrow . -- Sir William Brandon , you shall bear my standard . -- Give me some ink and paper in my tent ; I 'll draw the form and model of our battle , Limit each leader to his several charge , And part in just proportion our small power . My Lord of Oxford , you , Sir William Brandon , And you , Sir Walter Herbert , stay with me . The earl of Pembroke keeps his regiment -- Good Captain Blunt , bear my goodnight to him , And by the second hour in the morning Desire the earl to see me in my tent . Yet one thing more , good captain , do for me . Where is Lord Stanley quartered , do you know ?
Why , art thou mad , old fellow ?
He did , my gracious lord , begin that place , Which , since , succeeding ages have re-edified .
Haste me to know ' t , that I , with wings as swift As meditation or the thoughts of love , May sweep to my revenge .
Hence , and bestow your luggage where you found it .
No , that were pity . I would entreat you rather to put on Your boldest suit of mirth , for we have friends That purpose merriment . But fare you well . I have some business .
I have .
You spotted snakes with double tongue , Thorny hedgehogs , be not seen . Newts and blindworms , do no wrong . Come not near our fairy queen .
The better for him . Would I were so too .
Stay , officer . He shall not go to prison .
She shall be buried with her face upwards .
You 've said , sir . We looked not for Mark Antony here . Pray you , is he married to Cleopatra ?
Oh , that I served that lady And might not be delivered to the world , Till I had made mine own occasion mellow , What my estate is .
Now I am alone . Oh , what a rogue and peasant slave am I ! Is it not monstrous that this player here , But in a fiction , in a dream of passion , Could force his soul so to his own conceit That from her working all his visage wanned , Tears in his eyes , distraction in his aspect , A broken voice , and his whole function suiting With forms to his conceit ? And all for nothing -- For Hecuba ! What 's Hecuba to him or he to Hecuba That he should weep for her ? What would he do Had he the motive and the cue for passion That I have ? He would drown the stage with tears And cleave the general ear with horrid speech , Make mad the guilty and appall the free ,
Stay yet . Hear reason . --Edmund , I arrest thee On capital treason , and in thine attaint This gilded serpent . For your claim , fair sister , I bar it in the interest of my wife . ' Tis she is subcontracted to this lord . And I , her husband , contradict your banns . If you will marry , make your loves to me , My lady is bespoke .
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world ?
Here comes the fool , i ' faith .
Oh , you are well tuned now , But I 'll set down the pegs that make this music , As honest as I am .
Pray you , sir , stand up . I am sure you are not Launcelot , my boy .
I do entreat your grace to pardon me . I know not by what power I am made bold Nor how it may concern my modesty In such a presence here to plead my thoughts , But I beseech your grace that I may know The worst that may befall me in this case , If I refuse to wed Demetrius .
What money , sir ? For the fair kindness you have showed me here , And part being prompted by your present trouble , Out of my lean and low ability I 'll lend you something . My having is not much . I 'll make division of my present with you . Hold , there 's half my coffer .
Ay , good my lord .
Here , villain . Drawn and ready . Where art thou ?
Know you where you are , sir ?
Hark !
Good Maria , let this fellow be looked to . Where 's my cousin Toby ? Let some of my people have a special care of him . I would not have him miscarry for the half of my dowry .
Come on , sir , hold !
No , my noble lord . It is not for you . I have heard it over , And it is nothing , nothing in the world -- Unless you can find sport in their intents , Extremely stretched and conned with cru ' l pain To do you service .
A sail , a sail !
Caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard , Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey . I wonder none of you have thought of him .
The money that you owe me for the chain .
Let there be the same net spread for her , and that must your daughter and her gentlewomen carry . The sport will be when they hold one an opinion of another 's dotage , and no such matter . That 's the scene that I would see , which will be merely a dumb show . Let us send her to call him in to dinner .
What , no more ? Pay him six thousand and deface the bond ! Double six thousand , and then treble that , Before a friend of this description Shall lose a hair through Bassanio 's fault . First go with me to church and call me wife , And then away to Venice to your friend . For never shall you lie by Portia 's side With an unquiet soul . You shall have gold To pay the petty debt twenty times over . When it is paid , bring your true friend along . My maid Nerissa and myself meantime Will live as maids and widows . Come , away ! For you shall hence upon your wedding day . Bid your friends welcome , show a merry cheer . Since you are dear bought , I will love you dear . But let me hear the letter of your friend .
Where are they ? Gone ? Let this pernicious hour Stand aye accursed in the calendar ! Come in , without there .
Your royal father 's murdered .
The pleasant 'st angling is to see the fish Cut with her golden oars the silver stream And greedily devour the treacherous bait . So angle we for Beatrice , who even now Is couched in the woodbine coverture . Fear you not my part of the dialogue .
There is not only disgrace and dishonor in that , monster , but an infinite loss .
Young man , have you challenged Charles the wrestler ?
Nay then , God be wi ' you , an you talk in blank verse .
Thus with imagined wing our swift scene flies In motion of no less celerity Than that of thought . Suppose that you have seen The well-appointed king at Hampton pier Embark his royalty , and his brave fleet With silken streamers the young Phoebus fanning . Play with your fancies and in them behold , Upon the hempen tackle , shipboys climbing . Hear the shrill whistle , which doth order give To sounds confused . Behold the threaden sails , Borne with th ' invisible and creeping wind , Draw the huge bottoms through the furrowed sea , Breasting the lofty surge . Oh , do but think You stand upon the rivage and behold A city on th ' inconstant billows dancing , For so appears this fleet majestical Holding due course to Harfleur . Follow , follow ! Grapple your minds to sternage of this navy And leave your England , as dead midnight still , Guarded with grandsires , babies , and old women , Either past or not arrived to pith and puissance , For who is he whose chin is but enriched With one appearing hair that will not follow These culled and choice - drawn cavaliers to France ? Work , work your thoughts , and therein see a siege . Behold the ordnance on their carriages , With fatal mouths gaping on girded Harfleur . Suppose th ' Ambassador from the French comes back , Tells Harry that the king doth offer him
If it be that --
What , of my suit ?
I had a Richard too , and thou did 'st kill him ; I had a Rutland too ; thou holp 'st to kill him .
My daughter weeps ; she 'll not part with you . She 'll be a soldier too , she 'll to the wars .
You have seen and proved a fairer former fortune Than that which is to approach .
Arm , arm , my lord . The foe vaunts in the field .
An ' t please your Majesty , a rascal that swaggered with me last night , who , if alive and ever dare to challenge this glove , I have sworn to take him a box o ' th ' ear , or if I can see my glove in his cap , which he swore , as he was a soldier , he would wear if alive , I will strike it out soundly .
O noble prince , I can discover all The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl . There lies the man , slain by young Romeo , That slew thy kinsman , brave Mercutio .
A poor Egyptian yet , the Queen my mistress , Confined in all she has , her monument , Of thy intents desires instruction , That she preparedly may frame herself To th ' way she 's forced to .
Very well mended . Kiss him for that , good widow .
I cry you mercy , uncle . --By your Grace 's pardon .
Well , if Percy be alive , I 'll pierce him . If he do come in my way , so ; if he do not , if I come in his willingly , let him make a carbonado of me . I like not such grinning honor as Sir Walter hath . Give me life , which if I can save , so : if not , honor comes unlooked for , and there 's an end .
Marry , you may partly hope that your father got you not , that you are not the Jew 's daughter .
O , we are undone , both we and ours forever !
If a bloody coxcomb be a hurt , you have hurt me . I think you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb .
Iago is most honest . Michael , good night . Tomorrow with your earliest Let me have speech with you . -- Come , my dear love , The purchase made , the fruits are to ensue : That profit 's yet to come ' tween me and you . Good night .
Go seek the traitor Gloucester . Pinion him like a thief , bring him before us .
Now , by the world , it is a lusty wench . I love her ten times more than e' er I did . Oh , how I long to have some chat with her !
The noble Brutus is ascended . Silence !
Let me have men about me that are fat , Sleek - headed men and such as sleep a - nights . Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look . He thinks too much . Such men are dangerous .
What a full fortune does the Thick - lips owe If he can carry't thus !
In debating which was best , we shall part with neither .
Brief , I pray you , for you see it is a busy time with me .
My noble father , I do perceive here a divided duty . To you I am bound for life and education . My life and education both do learn me How to respect you . You are the lord of duty . I am hitherto your daughter . But here 's my husband . And so much duty as my mother showed To you , preferring you before her father , So much I challenge that I may profess Due to the Moor my lord .
I am very proud , revengeful , ambitious , with more offences at my beck than I have thoughts to put them in , imagination to give them shape , or time to act them in . What should such fellows as I do crawling between earth and heaven ? We are arrant knaves , all . Believe none of us . Go thy ways to a nunnery . Where 's your father ?
He is a craven and a villain else , an ' t please your Majesty , in my conscience .
Go , hie thee presently . Post to the road . An if the wind blow any way from shore , I will not harbor in this town tonight . If any bark put forth , come to the mart , Where I will walk till thou return to me . If every one knows us , and we know none , ' Tis time , I think , to trudge , pack , and be gone .
I was the more deceived .
No , no , they were not bound .
Cassio , my lord , hath killed a young Venetian Called Roderigo .
Well said . Th ' art a good fellow .
Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies . Some say he 's mad , others that lesser hate him Do call it valiant fury . But , for certain , He cannot buckle his distempered cause Within the belt of rule .
I am glad of it . -- Health to my lord and gentle cousin , Mowbray .
This passion and the death of a dear friend would go near to make a man look sad .
Not to be married , Not to knit my soul to an approved wanton .
Madam , an hour before the worshipped sun Peered forth the golden window of the east , A troubled mind drove me to walk abroad , Where , underneath the grove of sycamore That westward rooteth from this city side , So early walking did I see your son . Towards him I made , but he was ' ware of me And stole into the covert of the wood . I , measuring his affections by my own , Which then most sought where most might not be found , Being one too many by my weary self , Pursued my humor not pursuing his , And gladly shunned who gladly fled from me .
I can see yet without spectacles , and I see no such matter . There 's her cousin , an she were not possessed with a fury , exceeds her as much in beauty as the first of May doth the last of December . But I hope you have no intent to turn husband , have you ?
My ever - gentle cousin , welcome hither .
Is this certain ?
Hortensio , say thou wilt see the tailor paid . Go , take it hence . Begone , and say no more .
I 'll halt after .
I think that one of them is hereabout , And cannot make away .
How now , what news ?
I remember You did supplant your brother Prospero .
Oh , that 's a brave man . He writes brave verses , speaks brave words , swears brave oaths , and breaks them bravely , quite traverse , athwart the heart of his lover , as a puny tilter that spurs his horse but on one side breaks his staff like a noble goose ; but all' s brave that youth mounts and folly guides .
So I do . But i ' faith , I should have been a woman by right .
If thou attempt it , it will cost thee dear . Thou hast no weapon , and perforce must suffer .
Bring him before us .
There is a litter ready . Lay him in ' t And drive towards Dover , friend , where thou shalt meet Both welcome and protection . Take up thy master . If thou shouldst dally half an hour , his life , With thine and all that offer to defend him , Stand in assured loss . Take up , take up , And follow me , that will to some provision Give thee quick conduct .
Nay , let them go , a couple of quiet ones .
What can be avoided Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods ? Yet Caesar shall go forth , for these predictions Are to the world in general as to Caesar .
O , peace , peace !
Some haste , my lord ! Well , fare you well , my lord . Are you so hasty now ? Well , all is one .
Ay , that 's my name .
Dispute not with her ; she is lunatic .
Go , fetch me something : I 'll break ope the gate .
Such are the poor , in health -- or else a feast And takes away the stomach -- such are the rich , That have abundance and enjoy it not . I should rejoice now at this happy news , And now my sight fails , and my brain is giddy . O , me ! Come near me , now I am much ill .
O my lord !
But to be frank , and give it thee again . And yet I wish but for the thing I have . My bounty is as boundless as the sea , My love as deep . The more I give to thee , The more I have , for both are infinite .
The whole butt , man . My cellar is in a rock by th ' seaside where my wine is hid . --How now , mooncalf ? How does thine ague ?
Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar , I have not slept .
There is no more but so . Say it is done , And I will love thee and prefer thee for it .
Stay , you that bear the corse , and set it down .
How now , a rat ? Dead for a ducat , dead !
Pluck down benches .
This fellow 's of exceeding honesty And knows all quantities , with a learned spirit , Of human dealings . If I do prove her haggard , Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings , I 'd whistle her off and let her down the wind To prey at fortune . Haply , for I am black And have not those soft parts of conversation That chamberers have , or for I am declined Into the vale of years -- yet that 's not much -- She 's gone , I am abused , and my relief Must be to loathe her . Oh , curse of marriage That we can call these delicate creatures ours And not their appetites ! I had rather be a toad And live upon the vapor of a dungeon Than keep a corner in the thing I love For others ' uses . Yet ' tis the plague to great ones , Prerogatived are they less than the base . ' Tis destiny unshunnable , like death . Even then this forked plague is fated to us When we do quicken . Look where she comes .
Why , thou wert better in thy grave than to answer with thy uncovered body this extremity of the skies . --Is man no more than this ? Consider him well . --Thou owest the worm no silk , the beast no hide , the sheep no wool , the cat no perfume . Ha ! Here 's three on 's are sophisticated . Thou art the thing itself . Unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor , bare , forked animal as thou art . -- Off , off , you lendings ! Come . Unbutton here .
What 's the disease he means ?
Why then , the beef , and let the mustard rest .
O , forgive me my sins !
Madam , I am here . What is your will ?
Good e' en , good e' en .
Come , good sir . Will you show me to this house ?
Not a soul But felt a fever of the mad and played Some tricks of desperation . All but mariners Plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel , Then all afire with me . The king 's son , Ferdinand , With hair up - staring -- then , like reeds , not hair -- Was the first man that leaped , cried , " Hell is empty And all the devils are here . "
' Tis true , my lords , he did .
The Count 's gentleman , one Cesario . We took him for a coward , but he 's the very devil incardinate .
You charge me most unjustly .
Sure , my noble lord , If she be so abandoned to her sorrow As it is spoke , she never will admit me .
How can that be , when you have the voice of the king himself for your succession in Denmark ?
The fixed figure for the time of scorn To point his slow and moving finger at ! Yet could I bear that too , well , very well . But there where I have garnered up my heart , Where either I must live or bear no life , The fountain from the which my current runs Or else dries up -- to be discarded thence ! Or keep it as a cistern for foul toads To knot and gender in ! Turn thy complexion there , Patience , thou young and rose - lipped cherubin , -- Ay , there , look grim as hell !
All' s done , all' s won ; here breathless lies the King .
Drunk ?
They did entreat me to acquaint her of it , But I persuaded them , if they loved Benedick , To wish him wrestle with affection And never to let Beatrice know of it .
Mistake no more . I am not Litio , Nor a musician as I seem to be , But one that scorn to live in this disguise For such a one as leaves a gentlema And makes a god of such a cullion . Know , sir , that I am called Hortensio .
And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest .
I am gone , though I am here . There is no love in you . Nay , I pray you let me go .
Of Pisa , sir , son to Vincentio .
I would she had bestowed this dotage on me . I would have daffed all other respects and made her half myself . I pray you tell Benedick of it and hear what he will say .
For my life , to break with him about Beatrice !
Thou hast most kindly hit it .
And for I know she taketh most delight In music , instruments , and poetry , Schoolmasters will I keep within my house , Fit to instruct her youth . If you , Hortensio , Or , Signior Gremio , you know any such , Prefer them hither , for to cunning men I will be very kind , and liberal To mine own children in good bringing up . And so farewell . --Katherina , you may stay , For I have more to commune with Bianca .
Why , gentle sweet , you shall see no such thing .
He fell down in the marketplace , and foamed at mouth , and was speechless .
Yes , like enough , high - battled Caesar will Unstate his happiness and be staged to th ' show Against a sworder ! I see men 's judgments are A parcel of their fortunes , and things outward Do draw the inward quality after them To suffer all alike . That he should dream , Knowing all measures , the full Caesar will Answer his emptiness ! Caesar , thou hast subdued His judgment too .
I have drunk poison whiles he uttered it .
The old priest at Saint Luke 's Church is at your command at all hours .
We must do something , and i ' th ' heat .
I will , my lord , with all convenient haste .
I look for an earthquake too , then .
Beetles black , approach not near . Worm nor snail , do no offense .
Why , this that I speak of .
Ay , to the proof , as mountains are for winds , That shakes not , though they blow perpetually .
His purse is empty already . All 's golden words are spent .
Ay .
My honored lord !
Master , go on , and I will follow thee To the last gasp , with truth and loyalty . From seventeen years till now almost fourscore Here lived I , but now live here no more . At seventeen years , many their fortunes seek , But at fourscore , it is too late a week . Yet fortune cannot recompense me better Than to die well , and not my master 's debtor .
Master Fang , have you entered the action ?
We have beat him to his camp . Run one before And let the Queen know of our gests .
Before you fight the battle , ope this letter . If you have victory , let the trumpet sound For him that brought it . Wretched though I seem , I can produce a champion that will prove What is avouched there . If you miscarry , Your business of the world hath so an end , And machination ceases . Fortune love you .
Why , stay and hear me speak .
He shall not live . Look , with a spot I damn him . But , Lepidus , go you to Caesar 's house . Fetch the will hither , and we shall determine How to cut off some charge in legacies .
Oh , fie upon them ! Some such squire he was That turned your wit the seamy side without And made you to suspect me with the Moor .
Good sister , wrong me not nor wrong yourself , To make a bondmaid and a slave of me . That I disdain . But for these other goods -- Unbind my hands , I 'll pull them off myself , Yea , all my raiment to my petticoat , Or what you will command me will I do , So well I know my duty to my elders .
Men should be what they seem , Or those that be not , would they might seem none !
Who dead ? Speak , man .
Will you know them then ?
Good morrow to your Worship .
The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the beginning .
Who 's there , besides foul weather ?
Pray ye , sir ?
That shall be by and by . I remember the story .
Now God help thee !
I will hear further reason for this .
I do not , till you practice them on me .
Sir Topas , Sir Topas !
Thanks to your majesty .
No , here it is . Sit , cousin Percy Sit , good cousin Hotspur , for by that name As oft as Lancaster doth speak of you His cheek looks pale and with a rising sigh He wisheth you in heaven .
My noble brother !
O knowledge ill - inhabited , worse than Jove in a thatched house .
King Richard might create a perfect guess That great Northumberland , then false to him , Would of that seed grow to a greater falseness , Which should not find a ground to root upon Unless on you .
O , sir , his lackey , for all the world caparisoned like the horse ; with a linen stock on one leg and a kersey boot - hose on the other , gartered with a red and blue list ; an old hat and the humor of forty fancies pricked in ' t for a feather . A monster , a very monster in apparel , and not like a Christian footboy or a gentleman 's lackey .
What , what ?
I have none . Do not talk to me , Emilia . I cannot weep , nor answers have I none , But what should go by water . Prithee , tonight Lay on my bed my wedding sheets . Remember , And call thy husband hither .
A league from Epidamnum had we sailed Before the always - wind - obeying deep Gave any tragic instance of our harm ; But longer did we not retain much hope ; For what obscured light the heavens did grant Did but convey unto our fearful minds A doubtful warrant of immediate death , Which though myself would gladly have embraced , Yet the incessant weepings of my wife , Weeping before for what she saw must come , And piteous plainings of the pretty babes , That mourned for fashion , ignorant what to fear , Forced me to seek delays for them and me . And this it was , for other means was none : The sailors sought for safety by our boat And left the ship , then sinking - ripe , to us . My wife , more careful for the latter - born , Had fastened him unto a small spare mast , Such as seafaring men provide for storms . To him one of the other twins was bound , Whilst I had been like heedful of the other . The children thus disposed , my wife and I , Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fixed , Fastened ourselves at either end the mast And , floating straight , obedient to the stream , Was carried towards Corinth , as we thought . At length the sun , gazing upon the earth , Dispersed those vapors that offended us , And by the benefit of his wished light The seas waxed calm , and we discovered Two ships from far , making amain to us , Of Corinth that , of Epidaurus this . But ere they came , -O , let me say no more ! Gather the sequel by that went before .
Please you , draw near . --Louder the music there !
Thus , then , in few : Your Highness , lately sending into France , Did claim some certain dukedoms in the right Of your great predecessor , King Edward the Third ; In answer of which claim , the prince our master Says that you savor too much of your youth And bids you be advised there 's naught in France That can be with a nimble galliard won . You cannot revel into dukedoms there . He therefore sends you , meeter for your spirit , This tun of treasure , and , in lieu of this , Desires you let the dukedoms that you claim Hear no more of you . This the Dauphin speaks .
Never did mockers waste more idle breath .
Hal , wilt thou make one ?
Did not I say he would work it out ? The cur is excellent at faults .
Mistress , upon my life I tell you true . I have not breathed almost since I did see it . He cries for you , and vows , if he can take you , To scorch your face and to disfigure you .
O Lord , sir , who do you mean ?
In faith , he is a worthy gentleman , Exceedingly well read and profited In strange concealments , valiant as a lion , And as wondrous affable , and as bountiful As mines of India . Shall I tell you , cousin ? He holds your temper in a high respect And curbs himself even of his natural scope When you come cross his humor . Faith , he does . I warrant you that man is not alive Might so have tempted him as you have done Without the taste of danger and reproof . But do not use it oft , let me entreat you .
Not I , my lord , by heaven .
Now , noble peers . the cause why we are met Is to determine of the coronation . In God 's name , speak . When is the royal day ?
Nay , certainly , I have heard the Ptolemies ' pyramises are very goodly things . Without contradiction I have heard that .
For Antony , I have no ears to his request . The Queen Of audience nor desire shall fail , so she From Egypt drive her all - disgraced friend Or take his life there . This if she perform , She shall not sue unheard . So to them both .
I say , without characters fame lives long . Thus , like the formal Vice , Iniquity , I moralize two meanings in one word .
And by my two faiths and troths , my lord , I spoke mine .
O God 's lady dear , Are you so hot ? Marry , come up , I trow . Is this the poultice for my aching bones ? Henceforward do your messages yourself .
One .
I will help you to ' t . But tell me true , are you not mad indeed ? Or do you but counterfeit ?
Blessed fig 's - end ! The wine she drinks is made of grapes . If she had been blessed , she would never have loved the Moor . Blessed pudding ! Didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand ? Didst not mark that ?
Through the house give glimmering light , By the dead and drowsy fire . Every elf and fairy sprite Hop as light as bird from brier . And this ditty , after me , Sing and dance it trippingly .
The same , my lord , and your poor servant ever .
Is this the noble Moor whom our full senate Call all in all sufficient ? Is this the nature Whom passion could not shake ? Whose solid virtue The shot of accident nor dart of chance Could neither graze nor pierce ?
Come , kiss .
Oh , you are sick of self - love , Malvolio , and taste with a distempered appetite . To be generous , guiltless , and of free disposition is to take those things for bird - bolts that you deem cannon - bullets . There is no slander in an allowed fool , though he do nothing but rail . Nor no railing in a known discreet man , though he do nothing but reprove .
Now , sir , have I met you again ? There 's for you .
Tell him , when that our princely father York Blessed his three sons with his victorious arm , He little thought of this divided friendship . Bid Gloucester think of this , and he will weep .
Will she go now to bed ?
My lord , you must tell us where the body is and go with us to the king .
Marry , this it is , sir .
A pickax and a spade , a spade , For and a shrouding sheet , Oh , a pit of clay for to be made For such a guest is meet .
Show me briefly how .
Very good .
Get you to bed on th ' instant , I will be returned Forthwith . Dismiss your attendant there , look ' t be done .
How if they will not ?
Oh , the difference of man and man ! To thee a woman 's services are due . My fool usurps my body .
Uncle , adieu : O , let the hours be short Till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport .
Alack , I have no eyes . Is wretchedness deprived that benefit , To end itself by death ? ' Twas yet some comfort When misery could beguile the tyrant 's rage And frustrate his proud will .
Sleep rock thy brain , And never come mischance between us twain .
The best news is that we have safely found Our king and company . The next , our ship -- Which , but three glasses since , we gave out split -- Is tight and yare and bravely rigged as when We first put out to sea .
Stirred up by Dorset , Buckingham , and Morton , He makes for England , here to claim the crown .
What , you notorious villain , didst thou never see thy master 's father , Vincentio ?
Will you sup with me tonight , Casca ?
But shall ' t be shortly ?
My lord , I overrode him on the way ; And he is furnished with no certainties More than he haply may retail from me .
An we do not , it is pity of our lives .
It was my duty , sir .
Lay her i ' th ' earth , And from her fair and unpolluted flesh May violets spring ! I tell thee , churlish priest , A ministering angel shall my sister be When thou liest howling .
Stephano is my name , and I bring word My mistress will before the break of day Be here at Belmont . She doth stray about By holy crosses , where she kneels and prays For happy wedlock hours .
Where goes Cesario ?
There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisbe that will never please . First , Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself , which the ladies cannot abide . How answer you that ?
Whither should I fly ? I have done no harm . But I remember now I am in this earthly world , where to do harm Is often laudable , to do good sometime Accounted dangerous folly . Why then , alas , Do I put up that womanly defense , To say I have done no harm ?
Your beauty was the cause of that effect -- Your beauty , that did haunt me in my sleep To undertake the death of all the world , So I might live one hour in your sweet bosom .
I cannot tell . Things must be as they may . Men may sleep , and they may have their throats about them at that time , and some say knives have edges . It must be as it may . Though patience be a tired mare , yet she will plod . There must be conclusions . Well , I cannot tell .
Good now , some excellent fortune ! Let me be married to three kings in a forenoon and widow them all . Let me have a child at fifty , to whom Herod of Jewry may do homage . Find me to marry me with Octavius Caesar , and companion me with my mistress .
O , gentlemen , see , see dead Henry 's wounds Open their congealed mouths and bleed afresh ! -- Blush , blush , thou lump of foul deformity , For ' tis thy presence that exhales this blood From cold and empty veins where no blood dwells . Thy deeds , inhuman and unnatural , Provokes this deluge most unnatural . -- O God , which this blood mad'st , revenge his death ! O earth , which this blood drink 'st revenge his death ! Either heaven with lightning strike the murderer dead , Or earth gape open wide and eat him quick , As thou dost swallow up this good king 's blood , Which his hell - governed arm hath butchered !
Not he that himself is not so , which is Mark Antony . He will to his Egyptian dish again . Then shall the sighs of Octavia blow the fire up in Caesar , and , as I said before , that which is the strength of their amity shall prove the immediate author of their variance . Antony will use his affection where it is . He married but his occasion here .
What , in my sight?- -Bianca , get thee in .
Lady , will you walk a bout with your friend ?
I know ' t , I thank you . You do love my lord . You have known him long , and be you well assured He shall in strangeness stand no farther off Than in a polite distance .
In wisdom I should ask thy name . But since thy outside looks so fair and warlike , And that thy tongue some say of breeding breathes , What safe and nicely I might well delay By rule of knighthood , I disdain and spurn . Back do I toss these treasons to thy head , With the hell - hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart --
Peace , Grumio . It is the rival of my love . Petruchio , stand by a while .
Fetch ' t , let me see ' t .
Why art thou angry ?
Thou liest . His father is come from Padua and here looking out at the window .
And so have I addressed me . Fortune now To my heart 's hope ! Gold , silver , and base lead . " Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath . " You shall look fairer ere I give or hazard . What says the golden chest ? Ha , let me see . " Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire . "
What profane wretch art thou ?
Well , God send the Prince a better companion .
That 's to make him eat twenty of his words . But do you use me thus , Ned ? Must I marry your sister ?
Of Laertes ?
I will presently go learn their day of marriage .
No.
He 's worth more sorrow , And that I 'll spend for him .
My Lord of Warwick .
Am I but three inches ? Why , thy horn is a foot , and so long am I , at the least . But wilt thou make a fire , or shall I complain on thee to our mistress , whose hand , she being now at hand , thou shalt soon feel , to thy cold comfort , for being slow in thy hot office ?
And did you leave him in this contemplation ?
How prove you that in the great heap of your knowledge ?
Who is ' t you mean ?
Well , peace be with you , sir . Here comes my man .
I learned it in England where indeed they are most potent in potting . Your Dane , your German , and your swag - bellied Hollander --Drink , ho ! -- are nothing to your English .
My lord and brother , God save you .
None but friends . Say boldly .
Good heart , and i ' faith , I will tell her as much . Lord , Lord , she will be a joyful woman .
I call thee coward ? I 'll see thee damned ere I call thee coward , but I would give a thousand pound I could run as fast as thou canst . You are straight enough in the shoulders you care not who sees your back . Call you that backing of your friends ? A plague upon such backing ! Give me them that will face me . --Give me a cup of sack . --I am a rogue if I drunk today .
I have a wife , whom I protest I love . I would she were in heaven , so she could Entreat some power to change this currish Jew .
Husht , master , here 's some good pastime toward . That wench is stark mad or wonderful froward .
Do ye triumph , Roman ? Do you triumph ?
What hast thou done ? Thou hast mistaken quite , And laid the love juice on some true love 's sight . Of thy misprision must perforce ensue Some true love turned , and not a false turned true .
The four strangers seek for you , madam , to take their leave . And there is a forerunner come from a fifth , the Prince of Morocco , who brings word the prince his master will be here tonight .
Thou hast thine own form .
Did I not tell you she was innocent ?
Fathom and half , fathom and half ! Poor Tom !
Honest good fellows , ah , put up , put up , For , well you know , this is a pitiful case .
Didst thou ? Lord , Lord , how this world is given to lying . I grant you , Iwas down and out of breath , and so was he , but we rose both at an instant and fought a long hour by Shrewsbury clock . If I may be believed , so ; if not , let them that should reward valor bear the sin upon their own heads . I 'll take it upon my death , I gave him this wound in the thigh . If the man were alive and would deny it , zounds , I would make him eat a piece of my sword .
There is no appearance of fancy in him , unless it be a fancy that he hath to strange disguises , as to be a Dutchman today , a Frenchman tomorrow , or in the shape of two countries at once , as a German from the waist downward , all slops , and a Spaniard from the hip upward , no doublet . Unless he have a fancy to this foolery , as it appears he hath , he is no fool for fancy , as you would have it appear he is .
This is the sergeant Who like a good and hardy soldier fought ' Gainst my captivity . Hail , brave friend ! Say to the king the knowledge of the broil As thou didst leave it .
What 's he ?
Oh , I would thou didst , So half my Egypt were submerged and made A cistern for scaled snakes ! Go , get thee hence . Hadst thou Narcissus in thy face , to me Thou wouldst appear most ugly . He is married ?
Let every soldier hew him down a bough And bear ' t before him . Thereby shall we shadow The numbers of our host and make discovery Err in report of us .
I thank it . More , I prithee , more . I can suck melancholy out of a song as a weasel sucks eggs . More , I prithee , more .
O Douglas , hadst thou fought at Holmedon thus , I never had triumphed upon a Scot .
Am I not i ' th ' right , old Jephthah ?
It cannot be .
At Pembroke , or at Ha'rfordwest in Wales .
Pray God defend me ! A little thing would make me tell them how much I lack of a man .
I would you would accept of grace and love .
For he fears none .
' Tis some mischance , the cry is very direful .
Soft you , a word or two before you go . I have done the state some service , and they know ' t . No more of that . I pray you , in your letters , When you shall these unlucky deeds relate , Speak of me as I am . Nothing extenuate , Nor set down aught in malice . Then must you speak Of one that loved not wisely , but too well . Of one not easily jealous , but being wrought , Perplexed in the extreme . Of one whose hand , Like the base Indian , threw a pearl away Richer than all his tribe . Of one whose subdued eyes , Albeit unused to the melting mood , Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees Their medicinal gum . Set you down this ,
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven Visit her face too roughly . --Heaven and earth , Must I remember ? Why , she would hang on him As if increase of appetite had grown By what it fed on , and yet , within a month -- Let me not think on ' t . Frailty , thy name is woman ! -- A little month , or ere those shoes were old With which she followed my poor father 's body , Like Niobe , all tears . Why she , even she -- O God , a beast that wants discourse of reason Would have mourned longer ! -- married with my uncle , My father 's brother , but no more like my father Than I to Hercules . Within a month , Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears Had left the flushing in her galled eyes , She married . O most wicked speed , to post With such dexterity to incestuous sheets ! It is not nor it cannot come to good , But break , my heart , for I must hold my tongue .
We fortify in paper and in figures , Using the names of men instead of men , Like one that draws the model of a house Beyond his power to build it , who , half through , Gives o'er and leaves his part - created cost A naked subject to the weeping clouds And waste for churlish winter 's tyranny .
Very good , my lord .
I shall be saved by my husband . He hath made me a Christian .
Where sups he ? Doth the old boar feed in the old frank ?
Certes , she did ; the kitchen vestal scorned you .
" One Sir Andrew -- "
Give me your arm . Up so . How is ' t ? Feel you your legs ? You stand .
It would become me As well as it does you , and I should do it With much more ease , for my good will is to it And yours it is against .
If you shall cleave to my consent , when ' tis , It shall make honor for you .
O , know , my name is lost . By treason 's tooth bare - gnawn and canker - bit . Yet am I noble as the adversary I come to cope withal .
I do the wrong , and first begin to brawl . The secret mischiefs that I set abroach I lay unto the grievous charge of others . Clarence , whom I indeed have cast in darkness , I do beweep to many simple gulls , Namely , to Derby , Hastings , Buckingham , And tell them ' tis the queen and her allies That stir the king against the duke my brother . Now they believe it and withal whet me To be revenged on Rivers , Dorset , Grey ; But then I sigh and , with a piece of scripture , Tell them that God bids us do good for evil ; And thus I clothe my naked villainy With odd old ends stolen out of Holy Writ , And seem a saint when most I play the devil .
Thrice , and once the hedge - pig whined .
And I for Rosalind .
Give me the letter . I will look on it . Where is the county 's page , that raised the watch?- - Sirrah , what made your master in this place ?
To him , Sir Topas .
Shall I bid him go , and spare not ?
Wherein the toged consuls can propose As masterly as he . Mere prattle without practice Is all his soldiership . But he , sir , had th ' election And I , of whom his eyes had seen the proof At Rhodes , at Cyprus , and on other grounds Christian and heathen , must be belee 'd and calmed By debitor and creditor . This counter - caster He must his lieutenant be And I , bless the mark , his Moorship 's ancient .
O , he is mad , Laertes .
Calling my officers about me , in my branched velvet gown , having come from a daybed , where I have left Olivia sleeping --
So do I , my lord . They are entirely welcome .
Why , tell me , is not this my Cambio ?
What , no more ceremony ? See , my women , Against the blown rose may they stop their nose , That kneeled unto the buds . --Admit him , sir .
I do not know , my lord , what I should think .
What dost you mean by this ?
Her silence flouts me , and I 'll be revenged .
Anon , anon , sir .
Adieu ! Tears exhibit my tongue . Most beautiful pagan , most sweet Jew ! If a Christian do not play the knave and get thee , I am much deceived . But adieu . These foolish drops do something drown my manly spirit . Adieu .
Let them go . I 'll through Gloucestershire , and there will I visit Master Robert Shallow , Esquire . I have him already temp'ring between my finger and my thumb , and shortly will I seal with him . Come away .
Of nothing . Bring me to him . Hide , fox , and all after .
Horrible steep . Hark , do you hear the sea ?
The number of the King exceedeth ours . For God 's sake , cousin , stay till all come in .
What , Gertrude ? How does Hamlet ?
No.
The best I can , my lord .
Hush ! Here comes Antony .
All men I hope live so .
A halter pardon him and hell gnaw his bones ! Why should he call her " whore " ? Who keeps her company ? What place ? What time ? What form ? What likelihood ? The Moor 's abused by some most villainous knave , Some base notorious knave , some scurvy fellow . O heavens , that such companions thou'dst unfold , And put in every honest hand a whip To lash the rascals naked through the world Even from the east to th ' west !
This apoplexy , as I take it , is a kind of lethargy , an ' t please your Lordship , a kind of sleeping in the blood , a whoreson tingling .
That death 's unnatural that kills for loving . Alas , why gnaw you so your nether lip ? Some bloody passion shakes your very frame . These are portents , but yet I hope , I hope They do not point on me .
' Tis so ; and that self chain about his neck Which he forswore most monstrously to have . Good sir , draw near to me . I 'll speak to him . -- Signior Antipholus , I wonder much That you would put me to this shame and trouble , And not without some scandal to yourself , With circumstance and oaths so to deny This chain , which now you wear so openly . Beside the charge , the shame , imprisonment , You have done wrong to this my honest friend , Who , but for staying on our controversy , Had hoisted sail and put to sea today . This chain you had of me . Can you deny it ?
I will not .
To which we all appeal .
I have heard better news .
Or else it stood upon the choice of friends --
Out and alas , that was my lady 's voice .
Do not believe it .
Our knocking has awaked him . Here he comes .
" Thou canst not choose but know who I am . If thou entertainest my love , let it appear in thy smiling . Thy smiles become thee well . Therefore in my presence still smile , dear my sweet , I prithee . "
The man grows mad . Away with him . Come , come , sir .
The little strength that I have , I would it were with you .
O , thou didst prophesy the time would come That I should wish for thee to help me curse That bottled spider , that foul bunch - backed toad !
O brave spirit !
' Tis known before . Our preparation stands In expectation of them . O dear father , It is thy business that I go about . Therefore great France My mourning and importuned tears hath pitied . No blown ambition doth our arms incite , But love --dear love ! -- and our aged father 's right . Soon may I hear and see him .
Thou , nature , art my goddess . To thy law My services are bound . Wherefore should I Stand in the plague of custom and permit The curiosity of nations to deprive me For that I am some twelve or fourteen moonshines Lag of a brother ? Why " bastard " ? Wherefore " base " ? When my dimensions are as well compact , My mind as generous , and my shape as true As honest madam 's issue ? Why brand they us With " base , " with " baseness , " " bastardy , " " base , " " base " -- Who in the lusty stealth of nature take More composition and fierce quality Than doth within a dull , stale , tired bed Go to th ' creating a whole tribe of fops Got ' tween a sleep and wake ? Well then , Legitimate Edgar , I must have your land . Our father 's love is to the bastard Edmund As to the legitimate . --Fine word , " legitimate " ! -- Well , my legitimate , if this letter speed And my invention thrive , Edmund the base Shall top th ' legitimate . I grow , I prosper . Now , gods , stand up for bastards !
What news more ?
No remedy , my lord , when walls are so willful to hear without warning .
What is ' t thou say'st ?
Yea , marry , let me have him to sit under . He 's like to be a cold soldier .
But , soft ! here come my executioners . -- How now , my hardy , stout , resolved mates ? Are you now going to dispatch this thing ?
Why , there , there , there , there ! A diamond gone cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfurt -- the curse never fell upon our nation till now ! I never felt it till now --Two thousand ducats in that , and other precious , precious jewels . I would my daughter were dead at my foot and the jewels in her ear ! Would she were hearsed at my foot and the ducats in her coffin ! No news of them ? Why , so . And I know not what 's spent in the search . Why thou , loss upon loss ! The thief gone with so much , and so much to find the thief -- and no satisfaction , no revenge . Nor no ill luck stirring but what lights o ' my shoulders , no sighs but o ' my breathing , no tears but o ' my shedding .
When we are born , we cry that we are come To this great stage of fools . This a good block . It were a delicate stratagem to shoe A troop of horse with felt . I 'll put ' t in proof . And when I have stol'n upon these sons - in - law , Then , kill , kill , kill , kill , kill , kill !
What 's the matter ?
Hath he said any thing ?
Why , how now , Kate ! I hope thou art not mad . This is a man -- old , wrinkled , faded , withered -- And not a maiden , as thou say 'st he is .
If you do love my brother , hate not me . I am his brother , and I love him well . If you are hired for meed , go back again , And I will send you to my brother Gloucester , Who shall reward you better for my life Than Edward will for tidings of my death .
Indeed , my lord , I think it be two o'clock .
I do not think there is any such woman .
' Tis a Greek invocation , to call fools into a circle . I 'll go sleep if I can . If I cannot , I 'll rail against all the first-born of Egypt .
Thou dost lie in ' t , to be in ' t and say it is thine . ' Tis for the dead , not for the quick . Therefore thou liest .
What sayest thou ?
Come , sir , you peevishly threw it to her , and her will is it should be so returned . If it be worth stooping for , there it lies in your eye . If not , be it his that finds it .
Death of one person can be paid but once , And that she has discharged . What thou wouldst do Is done unto thy hand . The last she spake Was " Antony , most noble Antony ! " Then in the midst a tearing groan did break The name of Antony . It was divided Between her heart and lips . She rendered life , Thy name so buried in her .
Hold , sir , or I 'll throw your dagger o'er the house .
Madam , with all my heart . I shall obey you in all fair commands .
I crave your pardon . Soon at five o'clock , Please you , I 'll meet with you upon the mart And afterward consort you till bedtime . My present business calls me from you now .
Here comes the Prince and Claudio hastily .
Lie thou there , for here comes the trout that must be caught with tickling .
Methinks she should not use a long one for such a Pyramus . I hope she will be brief .
His grace looks cheerfully and smooth this morning . There 's some conceit or other likes him well When that he bids good morrow with such spirit . I think there 's never a man in Christendom Can lesser hide his love or hate than he , For by his face straight shall you know his heart .
A man , sir .
I can call spirits from the vasty deep .
Will you deny me now ? Is ' t possible that my deserts to you Can lack persuasion ? Do not tempt my misery , Lest that it make me so unsound a man As to upbraid you with those kindnesses That I have done for you .
Well , then , that 's the humor of ' t .
Thanks , i ' faith , for silence is only commendable In a neat 's tongue dried and a maid not vendible .
What , a hundred , man ?
One way I like this well . But being widow , and my Gloucester with her , May all the building in my fancy pluck Upon my hateful life . Another way The news is not so tart . --I 'll read and answer .
Let us go . Come . Our separation so abides and flies That thou , residing here , goes yet with me , And I , hence fleeting , here remain with thee . Away !
Royal King , Give but that portion which yourself proposed , And here I take Cordelia by the hand , Duchess of Burgundy .
I would thou wert a man 's tailor , that thou mightst mend him and make him fit to go . I cannot put him to a private soldier that is the leader of so many thousands . Let that suffice , most forcible Feeble .
My resolution and my hands I 'll trust , None about Caesar .
If you meet a thief , you may suspect him , by virtue of your office , to be no true man , and for such kind of men , the less you meddle or make with them , why the more is for your honesty .
Yonder comes my master , your brother .
How art thou out of breath when thou hast breath To say to me that thou art out of breath ? The excuse that thou dost make in this delay Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse . Is thy news good , or bad ? Answer to that . Say either , and I 'll stay the circumstance . Let me be satisfied . Is ' t good or bad ?
Goes the king hence today ?
How comes this , Sir John ? Fie , what man of good temper would endure this tempest of exclamation ? Are you not ashamed to enforce a poor widow to so rough a course to come by her own ?
Well , you may fear too far .
What say you , Hermia ? Be advised , fair maid : To you your father should be as a god , One that composed your beauties , yea , and one To whom you are but as a form in wax , By him imprinted and within his power To leave the figure or disfigure it . Demetrius is a worthy gentleman .
What countryman , I pray ?
Let your study Be to content your lord , who hath received you At fortune 's alms . You have obedience scanted , And well are worth the want that you have wanted .
I 'll be thy second .
Did I not , fellow ? I have seen the day with my good biting falchion I would have made them skip . I am old now , And these same crosses spoil me . Who are you ? Mine eyes are not o ' th ' best , I 'll tell you straight .
I have ever held my cap off to thy fortunes .
Of what kind should this cock come of ?
Thou hadst a Clarence too , and Richard killed him Then forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept A hellhound that doth hunt us all to death -- That dog , that had his teeth before his eyes , To worry lambs and lap their gentle blood ; That excellent grand tyrant of the earth , That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls ; That foul defacer of God 's handiwork Thy womb let loose to chase us to our graves . O upright , just , and true - disposing God , How do I thank thee that this carnal cur Preys on the issue of his mother 's body And makes her pew - fellow with others ' moan !
I thank his Grace . I know he loves me well . But for his purpose in the coronation , I have not sounded him , nor he delivered His gracious pleasure any way therein . But you , my honorable lords , may name the time , And in the duke 's behalf I 'll give my voice , Which I presume he 'll take in gentle part .
Let me give light , but let me not be light . For a light wife doth make a heavy husband , And never be Bassanio so for me . But God sort all ! You are welcome home , my lord .
Here , go -- the desk , the purse ! Sweet , now make haste .
How is ' t , my noble lord ?
So you walk softly , and look sweetly , and say nothing , I am yours for the walk , and especially when I walk away .
This cannot be , By no assay of reason . ' Tis a pageant , To keep us in false gaze . When we consider Th ' importancy of Cyprus to the Turk , And let ourselves again but understand That as it more concerns the Turk than Rhodes So may he with more facile question bear it , For that it stands not in such warlike brace But altogether lacks th ' abilities That Rhodes is dressed in . If we make thought of this We must not think the Turk is so unskillful To leave that latest which concerns him first , Neglecting an attempt of ease and gain To wake and wage a danger profitless .
I 'll claim that promise at your Grace 's hands .
Go we to him .
Shall we go send them dinners and fresh suits , And give their fasting horses provender , And after fight with them ?
Oh , ' tis too true ! How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience ! The harlot 's cheek , beautied with plastering art , Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it Than is my deed to my most painted word . O heavy burden !
' Tis a shrewd doubt , though it be but a dream . And this may help to thicken other proofs That do demonstrate thinly .
There 's none but asses will be bridled so .
' Tis good . Go to the gate . Somebody knocks .
I thank you . I am not of many words , but I thank you .
Do not weep , do not weep . Alas the day !
And so it is . I wonder what it bodes .
A most unhappy one . I would do much T ' atone them , for the love I bear to Cassio .
My lord , I warrant you we will play our part As he shall think by our true diligence He is no less than what we say he is .
I am not well in health , and that is all .
A grave ? Oh , no . A lantern , slaughtered youth , For here lies Juliet , and her beauty makes This vault a feasting presence full of light . Death , lie thou there , by a dead man interred .
' Tis Caesar that you mean . Is it not , Cassius ?
How say you now ? Is not your husband mad ?
Ay , but the mustard is too hot a little .
Come , the full stop .
I hope the king made peace with all of us ; And the compact is firm and true in me .
Think so , Iago ?
I come with gracious offers from the King , If you vouchsafe me hearing and respect .
I am bound to thee forever .
Non , je reciterai a vous promptement : " de hand , de fingre , de nails -- "
Come , we 'll to sleep . My strange and self-abuse Is the initiate fear that wants hard use . We are yet but young in deed .
Good night , honest Iago .
Excellent well !
A pleasing cordial , princely Buckingham , Is this thy vow unto my sickly heart . There wanteth now our brother Gloucester here To make the blessed period of this peace .
I speak in understanding . Y ' are . I know ' t . Therefore I do advise you , take this note . My lord is dead . Edmund and I have talked , And more convenient is he for my hand Than for your lady 's . You may gather more . If you do find him , pray you give him this . And when your mistress hears thus much from you , I pray desire her call her wisdom to her . So fare you well . If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor , Preferment falls on him that cuts him off .
Faith , once or twice she heaved the name of " father " Pantingly forth as if it pressed her heart , Cried , " Sisters , sisters ! Shame of ladies , sisters ! Kent , father , sisters ! What , i ' th ' storm , i ' th ' night ? Let pity not be believed . " There she shook The holy water from her heavenly eyes , And clamor moistened . Then away she started To deal with grief alone .
I promised we would be contributors And bear his charge of wooing , whatsoe'er .
Aye , sir . Ne'er a whit .
Thou speak 'st it well . --Go , father , with thy son . -- Take leave of thy old master and inquire My lodging out . -- Give him a livery More guarded than his fellows ' . See it done .
Ay , that 's the theme . To her in haste . Give her this jewel . Say My love can give no place , bide no denay .
That very time I saw Flying between the cold moon and the Earth , Cupid all armed . A certain aim he took At a fair vestal throned by the west , And loosed his love shaft smartly from his bow As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts . But I might see young Cupid 's fiery shaft Quenched in the chaste beams of the watery moon , And the imperial votaress passed on , In maiden meditation , fancy - free . Yet marked I where the bolt of Cupid fell . It fell upon a little western flower , Before milk - white , now purple with love 's wound . And maidens call it " love - in - idleness . " Fetch me that flower . The herb I showed thee once . The juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid Will make or man or woman madly dote Upon the next live creature that it sees . Fetch me this herb , and be thou here again Ere the leviathan can swim a league .
Believe me , sister , of all the men alive I never yet beheld that special face Which I could fancy more than any other .
A truant disposition , good my lord .
Well , I know not What counts harsh Fortune casts upon my face , But in my bosom shall she never come To make my heart her vassal .
No , my dearest love , I would not for the world .
Here 's the challenge , read it . Warrant there 's vinegar and pepper in ' t .
Tut , I am in their bosoms , and I know Wherefore they do it . They could be content To visit other places , and come down With fearful bravery , thinking by this face To fasten in our thoughts that they have courage . But ' tis not so .
To murder me ?
This found I on my tent this morning .
For the table , sir , it shall be served in . For the meat , sir , it shall be covered . For your coming in to dinner , sir , why , let it be as humours and conceits shall govern .
I ' faith , i ' faith , and both in a tune like two gypsies on a horse .
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks .
To him in thine own voice , and bring me word how thou findest him . I would we were well rid of this knavery . If he may be conveniently delivered , I would he were , for I am now so far in offense with my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety this sport to the upshot . Come by and by to my chamber .
With the health that Pompey gives him , else he is a very epicure .
Masters , play here , I will content your pains . Something that 's brief , and bid " Good morrow , general . "
Bardolph , am I not fallen away vilely since this last action ? Do I not bate ? Do I not dwindle ? Why , my skin hangs about me like an like an old lady 's loose gown . I am withered like an old applejohn . Well , I 'll repent , and that suddenly , while I am in some liking . I shall be out of heart shortly , and then I shall have no strength to repent . An I have not forgotten what the inside of a church is made of , I am a peppercorn , a brewer 's horse . The inside of a church ! Company , villanous company , hath been the spoil of me .
But soft , whom have we here ? Did you not tell me this fat man was dead ?
Nay , but how dearly he adores Mark Antony !
What does this mean , my lord ?
Yes , when he is in , but I think he is not in .
O Bottom , thou art changed ! What do I see on thee ?
Who put my man i ' th ' stocks ?
Show his eyes and grieve his heart . Come like shadows ; so depart !
Nothing certainer . One Hero died defiled , but I do live , And surely as I live , I am a maid .
Since his majesty went into the field , I have seen her rise from her bed , throw her nightgown upon her , unlock her closet , take forth paper , fold it , write upon ' t , read it , afterwards seal it , and again return to bed ; yet all this while in a most fast sleep .
Foul devil , for God 's sake , hence , and trouble us not , For thou hast made the happy earth thy hell , Filled it with cursing cries and deep exclaims . If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds , Behold this pattern of thy butcheries .
None , my lord , but old Mistress Quickly and Mistress Doll Tearsheet .
Why no , no more than reason .
Why , whither , Adam , wouldst thou have me go ?
The king is mad . How stiff is my vile sense , That I stand up and have ingenious feeling Of my huge sorrows . Better I were distract -- So should my thoughts be severed from my griefs , And woes by wrong imaginations lose The knowledge of themselves .
Signior Leonato , let the friar advise you . And though you know my inwardness and love Is very much unto the Prince and Claudio , Yet , by mine honor , I will deal in this As secretly and justly as your soul Should with your body .
What are you ? Your name , your quality , and why you answer This present summons ?
If not a present remedy , at least a patient sufferance .
These letters come from your father .
Yea , and paid me richly for the practice of it .
And for Cassio , let me be his undertaker . You shall hear more by midnight .
What will you do with ' t , that you have been so earnest To have me filch it ?
Speak this no more .
Oh , Oh , Petruchio ! Tranio hits you now .
And since we are o'erset , venture again . Come , we will all put forth , body and goods .
Brutus , I do observe you now of late I have not from your eyes that gentleness And show of love as I was wont to have . You bear too stubborn and too strange a hand Over your friend that loves you .
Give me . " Youth , whatsoever thou art , thou art but a scurvy fellow . "
No , as I am a man !
If he be credulous and trust my tale , I 'll make him glad to seem Vincentio And give assurance to Baptista Minola As if he were the right Vincentio . Take in your love , and then let me alone .
Well , I may chance to see you , for I would very fain speak with you .
How now , woolsack , what mutter you ?
Let 's follow , Gertrude . How much I had to do to calm his rage ! Now fear I this will give it start again . Therefore let 's follow .
I will not think it .
Coldhearted toward me ?
No. An he were , I would burn my study . But I pray you , who is his companion ? Is there no young squarer now that will make a voyage with him to the devil ?
I am no strumpet , but of life as honest As you that thus abuse me .
No , hath not ? Rosalind lacks then the love Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one . Shall we be sundered ? Shall we part , sweet girl ? No , let my father seek another heir . Therefore devise with me how we may fly , Whither to go , and what to bear with us , And do not seek to take your change upon you , To bear your griefs yourself and leave me out . For , by this heaven , now at our sorrows pale , Say what thou canst , I 'll go along with thee .
By ' r Lady , I think he be , but Goodman Puff of Barson .
Farewell , everyone .
O , let us have him , for his silver hairs Will purchase us a good opinion And buy men 's voices to commend our deeds . It shall be said his judgment ruled our hands . Our youths and wildness shall no whit appear , But all be buried in his gravity .
Then she is well , and nothing can be ill . Her body sleeps in Capels ' monument , And her immortal part with angels lives . I saw her laid low in her kindred 's vault And presently took post to tell it you . O , pardon me for bringing these ill news , Since you did leave it for my office , sir .
Alas , what danger will it be to us , Maids as we are , to travel forth so far ? Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold .
Fire and brimstone !
That may be , for you bear a many superfluously , and ' twere more honor some were away .
Let good Antonio look he keep his day , Or he shall pay for this .
Who ambles time withal ?
Ay , and brought off the field . Your cause of sorrow Must not be measured by his worth , for then It hath no end .
How ill agrees it with your gravity To counterfeit thus grossly with your slave , Abetting him to thwart me in my mood . Be it my wrong you are from me exempt , But wrong not that wrong with a more contempt . Come , I will fasten on this sleeve of thine . Thou art an elm , my husband , I a vine , Whose weakness , married to thy stronger state , Makes me with thy strength to communicate . If aught possess thee from me , it is dross , Usurping ivy , brier , or idle moss , Who , all for want of pruning , with intrusion Infect thy sap and live on thy confusion .
Now , most noble Brutus , The gods today stand friendly that we may , Lovers in peace , lead on our days to age . But since the affairs of men rest still incertain , Let 's reason with the worst that may befall . If we do lose this battle , then is this The very last time we shall speak together . What are you then determined to do ?
Roundly replied .
Come hither , mistress . Is your name Goneril ?
O , shut the door ! And when thou hast done so , Come weep with me , past hope , past cure , past help .
I 'll put a girdle round about the Earth In forty minutes .
Lord Mayor , the reason we have sent --
Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst been wise .
No , no . But all this did I know before . What says he of our marriage ? What of that ?
Are your doors locked ?
This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head .
I will , my lord .
And mine , to eke out hers .
When Caesar lived , he durst not thus have moved me .
Well , you are a rare parrot - teacher .
Your spirits shine through you . Within this hour at most I will advise you where to plant yourselves , Acquaint you with the perfect spy o ' th ' time , The moment on ' t; for ' t must be done tonight , And something from the palace ; always thought That I require a clearness . And with him -- To leave no rubs nor botches in the work -- Fleance , his son , that keeps him company , Whose absence is no less material to me Than is his father 's , must embrace the fate Of that dark hour . Resolve yourselves apart . I 'll come to you anon .
I shall be much bound to you for ' t . I am one that had rather go with sir priest than sir knight . I care not who knows so much of my mettle .
I prithee , boy , run to the senate house . Stay not to answer me , but get thee gone . Why dost thou stay ?
He that commends me to mine own content Commends me to the thing I cannot get . I to the world am like a drop of water That in the ocean seeks another drop , Who , falling there to find his fellow forth , Unseen , inquisitive , confounds himself . So I , to find a mother and a brother , In quest of them , unhappy , lose myself .
Why , then , let them alone till they are sober . If they make you not then the better answer , you may say they are not the men you took them for .
What are they that would speak with me ?
Why , I think so . I am not such an ass , but I can keep my hand dry . But what 's your jest ?
Foul words is but foul wind , and foul wind is but foul breath , and foul breath is noisome . Therefore I will depart unkissed .
She 's like a liar gone to burning hell . ' Twas I that killed her .
Whither ? To supper ?
Fie , brother , how the world is changed with you ! When were you wont to use my sister thus ? She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner .
This is too heavy . Let me see another .
An otter , Sir John . Why an otter ?
Cleopatra --
' Tis he , that villain Romeo .
Return to her , and fifty men dismissed ? No , rather I abjure all roofs , and choose To be a comrade with the wolf and owl -- To wage against the enmity o ' th ' air -- Necessity 's sharp pinch ! Return with her ? Why , the hot-blooded France that dowerless took Our youngest born --I could as well be brought To knee his throne , and , squirelike , pension beg To keep base life afoot . Return with her ? Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter To this detested groom .
Your worship 's wife , my mistress at the Phoenix , She that doth fast till you come home to dinner And prays that you will hie you home to dinner .
Ay . --Fare you well , fair gentleman .
Ay , two hours together .
I am not gamesome . I do lack some part Of that quick spirit that is in Antony . Let me not hinder , Cassius , your desires . I 'll leave you .
My lord , good morrow . --Good morrow , Catesby . -- You may jest on , but , by the Holy Rood , I do not like these several councils , I.
Dear lady , welcome home .
O villain , villain ! His very opinion in the letter ! Abhorred villain ! Unnatural , detested , brutish villain -- worse than
Believe me , I am not . I tell thee true .
Boy ! Lucius ! --Fast asleep ? It is no matter . Enjoy the honey - heavy dew of slumber . Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies , Which busy care draws in the brains of men . Therefore thou sleep 'st so sound .
It is your music , madam , of the house .
Where the bee sucks , there suck I. In a cowslip 's bell I lie . There I couch when owls do cry . On the bat 's back I do fly After summer merrily . Merrily , merrily shall I live now Under the blossom that hangs on the bough .
What 's the matter ?
And what confederacy have you with the traitors Late footed in the kingdom ?
What , courage , man ! What though care killed a cat ? Thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care .
Why , what would you ?
Yes , a dozen , and as many to th ' vantage as would store the world they played for . But I do think it is their husbands ' faults If wives do fall . Say that they slack their duties
He 's no swaggerer , hostess , a tame cheater , i ' faith . You may stroke him as gently as a puppy greyhound . He 'll not swagger with a Barbary hen if her feathers turn back in any show of resistance . --Call him up , drawer .
It shall to the barber 's , with your beard . --Prithee , say on . He 's for a jig or a tale of bawdry , or he sleeps . Say on . Come to Hecuba .
Come away , come away , death , And in sad cypress let me be laid . Fly away , fly away breath , I am slain by a fair cruel maid . My shroud of white , stuck all with yew , O , prepare it ! My part of death , no one so true Did share it . Not a flower , not a flower sweet On my black coffin let there be strown . Not a friend , not a friend greet My poor corpse , where my bones shall be thrown . A thousand thousand sighs to save , Lay me , O , where Sad true lover never find my grave , To weep there !
Hath Leonato any son , my lord ?
Past question , for thou seest it will not curl by nature .
The air bites shrewdly . It is very cold .
Soldiers , have careful watch .
O most bloody sight !
Despair thy charm , And let the angel whom thou still hast served Tell thee , Macduff was from his mother 's womb Untimely ripped .
And I 'll go to bed at noon .
She is dead .
Did your letters pierce the queen to any demonstration of grief ?
Well , stand aside . -- ' Fore God , they are both in a ale . Have you writ down that they are none ?
I know that virtue to be in you , Brutus , As well as I do know your outward favor . Well , honor is the subject of my story . I cannot tell what you and other men Think of this life , but , for my single self , I had as lief not be as live to be In awe of such a thing as I myself . I was born free as Caesar . So were you . We both have fed as well , and we can both Endure the winter 's cold as well as he . For once upon a raw and gusty day , The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores , Caesar said to me , " Darest thou , Cassius , now Leap in with me into this angry flood And swim to yonder point ? " Upon the word , Accoutred as I was , I plunged in And bade him follow . So indeed he did . The torrent roared , and we did buffet it With lusty sinews , throwing it aside And stemming it with hearts of controversy . But ere we could arrive the point proposed , Caesar cried , " Help me , Cassius , or I sink ! " I , as Aeneas , our great ancestor , Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder The old Anchises bear , so from the waves of Tiber Did I the tired Caesar . And this man
What , Curio ?
I 'll keep them all . By God , he shall not have a Scot of them . No , if a Scot would save his soul , he shall not . I 'll keep them , by this hand !
And so say I.
Some to the common pulpits , and cry out , " Liberty , freedom , and enfranchisement ! "
I stretch it out for that word " broad , " which , added to the goose , proves thee far and wide a broad goose .
No , no , he cannot long hold out these pangs . Th ' incessant care and labor of his mind Hath wrought the mure that should confine it in So thin that life looks through and will break out .
I am a messenger .
Here comes my messenger . --How now , mad spirit ? What night - rule now about this haunted grove ?
It may be , very like .
Nay , you were better speak first , and when you were graveled for lack of matter , you might take occasion to kiss . Very good orators , when they are out , they will spit ; and for lovers lacking --God warn us -- matter , the cleanliest shift is to kiss .
Brutus , bait not me . I 'll not endure it . You forget yourself To hedge me in . I am a soldier , I , Older in practice , abler than yourself To make conditions .
O slanderous world ! Kate like the hazel - twig Is straight and slender and as brown in hue As hazel nuts , and sweeter than the kernels . Oh , let me see thee walk ! Thou dost not halt .
Half a share .
Go to , I know you well enough .
And still , as you are weary of this weight , Rest you , whiles I lament King Henry 's corse .
Shall I go win my daughter to thy will ?
Ay , and greater wonders than that .
O Caesar , read mine first , for mine 's a suit That touches Caesar nearer . Read it , great Caesar .
There is no other way . ' Tis she must do ' t , And , lo , the happiness ! Go and importune her .
And does not Toby take you a blow o ' the lips then ?
How dost thou , Charles ?
I must away today , before night come . Make it no wonder . If you knew my business , You would entreat me rather go than stay . And , honest company , I thank you all , That have beheld me give away myself To this most patient , sweet and virtuous wife . Dine with my father , drink a health to me , For I must hence , and farewell to you all .
Now tell me how long you would have her after you have possessed her .
For mine own part , I have toward heaven breathed a secret vow To live in prayer and contemplation , Only attended by Nerissa here Until her husband and my lord 's return . There is a monastery two miles off , And there will we abide . I do desire you Not to deny this imposition , The which my love and some necessity Now lays upon you .
Yes , my conscience , He did us great good .
Through the forest have I gone . But Athenian found I none , On whose eyes I might approve This flower 's force in stirring love . Night and silence ! Who is here ? Weeds of Athens he doth wear . This is he , my master said , Despised the Athenian maid . And here the maiden , sleeping sound On the dank and dirty ground . Pretty soul ! She durst not lie Near this lack - love , this kill - courtesy . Churl , upon thy eyes I throw All the power this charm doth owe . When thou wakest , let love forbid Sleep his seat on thy eyelid . So awake when I am gone , For I must now to Oberon .
What 's here ? One dead , or drunk ? See , doth he breathe ?
Didst thou give all to thy two daughters , and art thou come to this ?
He 's a traitor .
Let 's take leave of him .
Nurse , where 's my daughter ? Call her forth to me .
How now , what news ?
' Tis sweating labor To bear such idleness so near the heart As Cleopatra this . But , sir , forgive me , Since my becomings kill me when they do not Eye well to you . Your honor calls you hence . Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly , And all the gods go with you ! Upon your sword Sit laurel victory , and smooth success Be strewed before your feet .
Sir Toby Belch ! How now , Sir Toby Belch !
But this same Cassio , though he speak of comfort Touching the Turkish loss , yet he looks sadly And prays the Moor be safe . For they were parted With foul and violent tempest .
Well said , Master Silence .
His majesty , Tend'ring my person 's safety , hath appointed This conduct to convey me to the Tower .
Strike , you slave . Stand , rogue . Stand , you neat slave , strike !
What talk you of the posy or the value ? You swore to me when I did give it you That you would wear it till your hour of death , And that it should lie with you in your grave . Though not for me , yet for your vehement oaths , You should have been respective and have kept it . Gave it a judge 's clerk ! No , God 's my judge . The clerk will ne'er wear hair on 's face that had it .
Well , my good lord , I 'll do ' t .
What , are the brothers parted ?
Cousin , cousin , how have you come so early by this lethargy ?
Why , fear not , man . I will not forfeit it . Within these two months -- that 's a month before This bond expires --I do expect return Of thrice three times the value of this bond .
Good grandam , tell us , is our father dead ?
" Very well , " " go to " ! I cannot go to , man , nor ' tis not very well . Nay , I think it is scurvy , and begin to find myself fopped in it .
Why , and I trust I may go too , may I not ? What , shall I be appointed hours as though , belike , I knew not what to take and what to leave , ha ?
God for Thy mercy , they are loose again !
Nay , sure , he 's not in hell ! He 's in Arthur 's bosom , if ever man went to Arthur 's bosom . He made a finer end , and went away an it had been any christom child . He parted ev'n just between twelve and one , ev'n at the turning o ' th ' tide ; for after I saw him fumble with the sheets and play with flowers and smile upon his finger 's end , I knew there was but one way , for his nose was as sharp as a pen , and he told of green fields . " How now , Sir John ? " quoth I. " What , man , be o ' good cheer ! " So he cried out " God , God , God ! " three or four times . Now I , to comfort him , bid him he should not think of God . I hoped there was no need to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet . So he bade me lay more clothes on his feet . I put my hand into the bed and felt them , and they were as cold as any stone . Then I felt to his knees , and so upward and upward , and all was as cold as any stone .
Heavens thank you for ' t ! And now , I pray you , sir -- For still ' tis beating in my mind -- your reason For raising this sea storm ?
And we must do it wisely .
I assure you , Carthage .
A gentle riddance . --Draw the curtains , go . -- Let all of his complexion choose me so .
Well , I 'll put it on , and I will dissemble myself in ' t , and I would I were the first that ever dissembled in such a gown .
So art thou to revenge when thou shalt hear .
But stirred by Cleopatra . Now , for the love of Love and her soft hours , Let 's not confound the time with conference harsh . There 's not a minute of our lives should stretch Without some pleasure now . What sport tonight ?
Your Honor 's players , hearing your amendment , Are come to play a pleasant comedy , For so your doctors hold it very meet , Seeing too much sadness hath congealed your blood , And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy . Therefore they thought it good you hear a play And frame your mind to mirth and merriment , Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life .
Peace , good pint - pot . Peace , good tickle - brain . -- Harry , I do not only marvel where thou spendest thy time , but also how thou art accompanied . For though the camomile , the more it is trodden on , the faster it grows , so youth , the more it is wasted , the sooner it wears . That thou art my son I have partly thy mother 's word , partly my own opinion , but chiefly a villanous trick of thine eye and a foolish - hanging of thy nether lip that doth warrant me . If then thou be son to me , here lies the point : why , being son to me , art thou so pointed at ? Shall the blessed sun of heaven prove a micher and eat blackberries ? A question not to be asked . Shall the sun of England prove a thief and take purses ? A question to be asked . There is a thing , Harry , which thou hast often heard of , and it is known to many in our land by the name of pitch : this pitch , as ancient writers do report , doth defile ; so doth the company thou keepest . For , Harry , now I do not speak to thee , in drink but in tears ; not in pleasure , but in passion ; not in words only , but in woes also . And yet there is a virtuous man whom I have often noted in thy company , but I know not his name .
You are too indulgent . Let 's grant , it is not Amiss to tumble on the bed of Ptolemy , To give a kingdom for a mirth , to sit And keep the turn of tippling with a slave , To reel the streets at noon , and stand the buffet With knaves that smell of sweat . Say this becomes him -- As his composure must be rare indeed Whom these things cannot blemish -- yet must Antony No way excuse his foils when we do bear So great weight in his lightness . If he filled His vacancy with his voluptuousness , Full surfeits and the dryness of his bones Call on him for ' t . But to confound such time That drums him from his sport and speaks as loud As his own state and ours , ' tis to be chid As we rate boys who , being mature in knowledge , Pawn their experience to their present pleasure And so rebel to judgment .
Francis !
Ha ? A bastard son of the King's? --And art not thou Poins his brother ?
Thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe .
Where ?
I knew he was not in his perfect wits .
We doubt it nothing . Heartily farewell .
Signior Hortensio , ' twixt such friends as we Few words suffice . And therefore , if thou know One rich enough to be Petruchio 's wife , As wealth is burden of my wooing dance , Be she as foul as was Florentius ' love , As old as Sibyl and as curst and shrewd As Socrates ' Xanthippe , or a worse , She moves me not , or not removes at least Affection 's edge in me , were she as rough As are the swelling Adriatic seas . I come to wive it wealthily in Padua ; If wealthily , then happily in Padua .
Think what thou wilt , I am thy lover 's grace . And like Limander am I trusty still .
Where 's the thane of Cawdor ? We coursed him at the heels and had a purpose To be his purveyor ; but he rides well , And his great love , sharp as his spur , hath holp him To his home before us . Fair and noble hostess , We are your guest tonight .
I never did her any , to my knowledge .
Alas , sir , be patient . What say you sir ? I am shent for speaking to you .
Thou hast described A hot friend cooling . Ever note , Lucillius , When love begins to sicken and decay , It useth an enforced ceremony . There are no tricks in plain and simple faith . But hollow men , like horses hot at hand , Make gallant show and promise of their mettle .
Neither : he took this place for sanctuary , And it shall privilege him from your hands Till I have brought him to his wits again Or lose my labor in assaying it .
Vent my folly ? He has heard that word of some great man and now applies it to a fool . Vent my folly ! I am afraid this great lubber , the world , will prove a cockney . I prithee now , ungird thy strangeness and tell me what I shall vent to my lady . Shall I vent to her that thou art coming ?
Oh , a stool and a cushion for the Sexton .
My lord , the mayor of London comes to greet you .
Pray you lead on . At every house I 'll call . I may command at most . --Get weapons , ho ! And raise some special officers of might . -- On , good Roderigo . I will deserve your pains .
Till which encounter It is my business too . Farewell .
You bid me make it orderly and well , According to the fashion and the time .
Neglected , rather , And then when poisoned hours had bound me up From mine own knowledge . As nearly as I may I 'll play the penitent to you , but mine honesty Shall not make poor my greatness nor my power Work without it . Truth is that Fulvia , To have me out of Egypt , made wars here , For which myself , the ignorant motive , do So far ask pardon as befits mine honor To stoop in such a case .
He that dies pays all debts . --I defy thee ! --Mercy upon us !
Why , then , your visor should be thatched .
That 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts . An if your wife be not a madwoman , And know how well I have deserved the ring , She would not hold out enemy forever For giving it to me . Well , peace be with you .
Look , he recovers .
Shall we clap into ' t roundly , without hawking or spitting or saying we are hoarse , which are the only prologues to a bad voice ?
I do not think so . Since he went into France , I have been in continual practice . I shall win at the odds . But thou wouldst not think how ill all' s here about my heart . But it is no matter .
Ah , that 's a foul fault .
I would his Majesty had called me with him . The service that I truly did his life Hath left me open to all injuries .
Now Hercules be thy speed , young man !
Of love ?
I have said .
Is she so hot a shrew as she 's reported ?
Else wherefore breathe I in a Christian land ?
Heaven keep the monster from Othello 's mind !
What hour now ?
Or else were this a savage spectacle ! Our reasons are so full of good regard That were you , Antony , the son of Caesar , You should be satisfied .
My brother 's love , the devil , and my rage .
This Tunis , sir , was Carthage .
I hope all will be well . We must be patient , but I cannot choose but weep , to think they should lay him i ' th ' cold ground . My brother shall know of it , and so I thank you for your good counsel . Come , my coach ! Good night , ladies . Good night , sweet ladies . Good night , good night .
Oh , quick , or I am gone .
I thank thee with all my heart , kind Master Bardolph , ( to the PAGE ) and welcome , my tall fellow . --Come , Sir John .
It 's the wind .
A pox damn you , muddy rascal . Is that all the comfort you give me ?
Yea , good Master Snare , I have entered him and all .
O , je vous supplie , pour l' amour de Dieu , me pardoner . Je suis gentilhomme de bonne maison . Gardez ma vie , et je vous donnerai deux cents ecus
It was , my lord ; who lined himself with hope , Eating the air on promise of supply , Flatt'ring himself in project of a power Much smaller than the smallest of his thoughts , And so , with great imagination Proper to madmen , led his powers to death And , winking , leapt into destruction .
Belike ' tis but a rumor . Good night to you .
There is no need of any such redress , Or if there were , it not belongs to you .
I do remember .
Go you before to Gloucester with these letters . Acquaint my daughter no further with anything you know than comes from her demand out of the letter . If your diligence be not speedy , I shall be there afore you .
Nothing . What news ?
Health and long life to you , Master Silence .
Have you prayed tonight , Desdemon ?
Well , well , away .
Yea , Richard , when I know , for I protest As yet I do not . But , as I can learn , He hearkens after prophecies and dreams , And from the crossrow plucks the letter G , And says a wizard told him that by " G " His issue disinherited should be . And for my name of George begins with G , It follows in his thought that I am he . These , as I learn , and such like toys as these Have moved his Highness to commit me now .
Marry , have we , sir . Will you sit ?
Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land , A fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements . If it hath ruffianed so upon the sea What ribs of oak , when mountains melt on them , Can hold the mortise ? What shall we hear of this ?
Who hath measured the ground ?
What bloody man is that ? He can report , As seemeth by his plight , of the revolt The newest state .
Now , fellow , What is there ?
I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed .
Why , this is a certificate .
How say you by that ? Still harping on my daughter . Yet he knew me not at first . He said I was a fishmonger . He is far gone , far gone . And truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for love , very near this . I 'll speak to him again . -- What do you read , my lord ?
No , make it two more . Let it be written in eight and eight .
The courses of his youth promised it not . The breath no sooner left his father 's body But that his wildness , mortified in him , Seemed to die too . Yea , at that very moment Consideration like an angel came And whipped th ' offending Adam out of him , Leaving his body as a paradise T ' envelop and contain celestial spirits . Never was such a sudden scholar made , Never came reformation in a flood With such a heady currance scouring faults , Nor never Hydra - headed willfulness So soon did lose his seat , and all at once , As in this king .
Is it a beggarman ?
Your father was ever virtuous , and holy men at their death have good inspirations . Therefore the lottery that he hath devised in these three chests of gold , silver , and lead , whereof who chooses his meaning chooses you , will no doubt never be chosen by any rightly but one who shall rightly love . But what warmth is there in your affection towards any of these princely suitors that are already come ?
How now , what news ?
Fare you well .
We will not fail .
Got with much ease . Now merrily to horse . The thieves are all scattered , and possessed with fear So strongly that they dare not meet each other . Each takes his fellow for an officer . Away , good Ned . Falstaff sweats to death , And lards the lean earth as he walks along . Were ' t not for laughing , I should pity him .
Has this fellow no feeling of his business ? He sings at grave - making .
Gentlemen , importune me no farther , For how I firmly am resolved you know -- That is , not to bestow my youngest daughter Before I have a husband for the elder . If either of you both love Katherina , Because I know you well and love you well Leave shall you have to court her at your pleasure .
Nor shalt not till necessity be served .
How now ? Who has put in ?
Stir not until the signal .
A fool go with thy soul whither it goes ! A borrowed title hast thou bought too dear . Why didst thou tell me that thou wert a king ?
Katherine his daughter and with her , to dowry , Some petty and unprofitable dukedoms . The offer likes not , and the nimble gunner With linstock now the devilish cannon touches ,
Who shall stay you ?
Give him tending . He brings great news .
Hang him instantly .
A very honest - hearted fellow , and as poor as the king .
Was that mine ?
Kind sister , thanks . We 'll enter all together .
I might ask you for your commission , but I do take thee , Orlando , for my husband . There 's a girl goes before the priest , and certainly a woman 's thought runs before her actions .
Good Michael , look you to the guard tonight . Let 's teach ourselves that honorable stop Not to outsport discretion .
Mass , and well said . A merry whoreson , ha ! Thou shalt be loggerhead . --Good faith , ' tis day . The county will be here with music straight , For so he said he would . I hear him near . --
Where did you leave him ?
You 'll leave his lecture when I am in tune ?
But I have , sir , a son by order of law , some year older than this , who yet is no dearer in my account . Though this knave came something saucily to the world before he was sent for , yet was his mother fair , there was good sport at his making , and the whoreson must be acknowledged . --Do you know this noble gentleman , Edmund ?
Let me come in , and you shall know my errand . I come from Lady Juliet .
' Tis very strange .
It is myself I mean , in whom I know All the particulars of vice so grafted That , when they shall be opened , black Macbeth Will seem as pure as snow , and the poor state Esteem him as a lamb , being compared With my confineless harms .
Good morrow , honest gentlemen .
Perhaps you have learned it without book . But I pray , can you read anything you see ?
Break an hour 's promise in love ? He that will divide a minute into a thousand parts and break but a part of the thousand part of a minute in the affairs of love , it may be said of him that Cupid hath clapped him o ' th ' shoulder , but I 'll warrant him heart - whole .
Marry , beshrew my hand If it should give your age such cause of fear . In faith , my hand meant nothing to my sword .
Master , for my hand , Both our inventions meet and jump in one .
But say , I prithee , is he coming home ? It seems he hath great care to please his wife .
Anon !
Most royal sir , Fleance is ' scaped .
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark .
Villain , I say , knock me here soundly .
And so they are . Alas , that they are so , To die even when they to perfection grow !
No marvel , you have so bestirred your valor . You cowardly rascal , nature disclaims in thee . A tailor made thee .
Where is the crown ? Who took it from my pillow ?
He , for his father 's sake , so loves the prince That he will not be won to aught against him .
In faith , too much . I find it still , when I have leave to sleep . Marry , before your ladyship , I grant , She puts her tongue a little in her heart And chides with thinking .
What says that fool of Hagar 's offspring , ha ?
She is protectress of her honor too . May she give that ?
Accursed , unhappy , wretched , hateful day ! Most miserable hour that e' er time saw In lasting labor of his pilgrimage . But one , poor one , one poor and loving child , But one thing to rejoice and solace in , And cruel death hath catched it from my sight !
What wood is this before us ?
He a good wit ? Hang him , baboon . His wit 's as thick as Tewksbury mustard . There 's no more conceit in him than is in a mallet .
I 'll play this bout first . Set it by a while . Come .
Trebonius knows his time . For , look you , Brutus . He draws Mark Antony out of the way .
Dear Celia , I show more mirth than I am mistress of , and would you yet I were merrier ? Unless you could teach me to forget a banished father , you must not learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure .
Dead , then ?
Well , an you be not turned Turk , there 's no more sailing by the star .
She 's a beagle , true - bred , and one that adores me . What o ' that ?
Then thou wert best say that I am not Lucentio .
They have not been commanded , mighty king . Pleaseth your Majesty to give me leave , I 'll muster up my friends and meet your Grace Where and what time your Majesty shall please .
I could have given less matter A better ear . --Menas , I did not think This amorous surfeiter would have donned his helm For such a petty war . His soldiership Is twice the other twain . But let us rear The higher our opinion , that our stirring Can from the lap of Egypt 's widow pluck The ne'er lust - wearied Antony .
My lord ?
Is my master and his wife coming , Grumio ?
Come , I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber .
Every day thou daff 'st me with some device , Iago , and rather , as it seems to me now , keep 'st from me all conveniency than suppliest me with the least advantage of hope .
The sight is dismal , And our affairs from England come too late . The ears are senseless that should give us hearing , To tell him his commandment is fulfilled , That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead . Where should we have our thanks ?
And I another So weary with disasters , tugged with fortune , That I would set my life on any chance , To mend it or be rid on ' t .
She were an excellent wife for Benedict .
Not till Monday , my dear son , which is hence a just sevennight , and a time too brief , too , to have all things answer my mind .
O , take the sense , sweet , of my innocence . Love takes the meaning in love 's conference . I mean that my heart unto yours is knit So that but one heart we can make of it . Two bosoms interchained with an oath -- So then two bosoms and a single troth . Then by your side no bed room me deny . For , lying so , Hermia , I do not lie .
Enough , enough , my lord . You have enough ! I beg the law , the law , upon his head . -- They would have stol'n away , they would , Demetrius , Thereby to have defeated you and me , You of your wife and me of my consent , Of my consent that she should be your wife .
Why , what 's the matter ?
I do so , I confess it . Ah , sirrah , a body would think this was well - counterfeited . I pray you tell your brother how well I counterfeited . Heigh-ho .
Yea , or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe .
The army is discharged all and gone .
Truly , the tree yields bad fruit .
No , he doth but mistake the truth totally .
Humbly complaining to her deity Got my Lord Chamberlain his liberty . I 'll tell you what : I think it is our way , If we will keep in favor with the king , To be her men and wear her livery . The jealous o'erworn widow and herself , Since that our brother dubbed them gentlewomen , Are mighty gossips in this monarchy .
Is your name Shylock ?
You come most carefully upon your hour .
Question it , Horatio .
By the Lord , I 'll be a traitor then when thou art king .
Yet again ? What do you here ? Shall we give o'er and drown ? Have you a mind to sink ?
O wonderful , wonderful , and most wonderful wonderful , and yet again wonderful , and after that , out of all whooping !
This is the fruits of whoring . Prithee , Emilia , Go know of Cassio where he supped tonight . -- What , do you shake at that ?
Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house , As beaten hence by your strange lunacy . O noble lord , bethink thee of thy birth , Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment , And banish hence these abject lowly dreams . Look how thy servants do attend on thee , Each in his office ready at thy beck . Wilt thou have music ? Hark ! Apollo plays ,
No ; for my manly heart doth earn . --Bardolph , be blithe . -- Nym , rouse thy vaunting veins . --Boy , bristle thy courage up . For Falstaff , he is dead , and we must earn therefore .
Why , how now , dame ! whence grows this insolence?- - Bianca , stand aside . --Poor girl , she weeps ! Go ply thy needle ; meddle not with her . For shame , thou hilding of a devilish spirit ! Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee ? When did she cross thee with a bitter word ?
Every man 's conscience is a thousand men , To fight against this guilty homicide .
Who saw Cesario , ho ?
She was here even now . She haunts me in every place . I was the other day talking on the sea - bank with certain Venetians , and thither comes the bauble and , by this hand , she falls me thus about my neck --
' Tis midnight . I 'll go arm myself .
Come , my good lord , away .
I know that , but I would have thee hence and here again .
If ever I live to see it , I will challenge it .
Be ' t their comfort We are coming thither . Gracious England hath Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men ; An older and a better soldier none That Christendom gives out .
Why ask you this ?
He shall think , by the letters that thou wilt drop , that they come from my niece , and that she 's in love with him .
Madam , he will . I know ' t .
My knight , I will inflame thy noble liver , and make thee rage . Thy Doll and Helen of thy noble thoughts is in base durance and contagious prison , Haled thither by most mechanical and dirty hand . Rouse up revenge from ebon den with fell Alecto 's snake , for Doll is in . Pistol speaks nought but truth .
' Tis death for anyone in Mantua To come to Padua . Know you not the cause ? Your ships are stayed at Venice , and the Duke , For private quarrel ' twixt your duke and him , Hath published and proclaimed it openly . ' Tis marvel , but that you are but newly come , You might have heard it else proclaimed about .
What three things does drink especially provoke ?
Noting this penury , to myself I said , " An if a man did need a poison now " -- Whose sale is present death in Mantua -- " Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him . " Oh , this same thought did but forerun my need , And this same needy man must sell it me . As I remember , this should be the house . Being holiday , the beggar 's shop is shut . What , ho ! Apothecary !
charge you and discharge you with the motion of a pewterer 's hammer , come off and on swifter than he that gibbets on the brewer 's bucket . And this same half - faced fellow , Shadow , give me this man . He presents no mark to the enemy . The foeman may with as great aim level at the edge of a penknife . And for a retreat , how swiftly will this Feeble the woman 's tailor , run off ! O , give me the spare men , and spare me the great ones . --Put me a caliver into Wart 's hand , Bardolph .
I 'll tell you what , you thin man in a censer , I will have you as soundly swinged for this , you bluebottle rogue , you filthy famished correctioner . If you be not swinged , I 'll forswear half - kirtles .
Work on , My medicine , work ! Thus credulous fools are caught , And many worthy and chaste dames even thus , All guiltless , meet reproach . --What , ho ! My lord ! My lord , I say ! Othello !
Thou hast a sister by the mother 's side , Admired Octavia . Great Mark Antony Is now a widower .
I do defy thy commination And apprehend thee for a felon here .
I will not sup tonight . Give me some ink and paper . What , is my beaver easier than it was ? And all my armor laid into my tent ?
I must go in . Ay me , how weak a thing The heart of woman is ! O Brutus , The heavens speed thee in thine enterprise ! Sure , the boy heard me . Brutus hath a suit That Caesar will not grant . --Oh , I grow faint . -- Run , Lucius , and commend me to my lord . Say I am merry . Come to me again , And bring me word what he doth say to thee .
Well , my lord .
Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met , Upon agreement from us to his liking , Will undertake to woo curst Katherine , Yea , and to marry her , if her dowry please .
When the hurly-burly 's done , When the battle 's lost and won .
Not in deed , madam , for I can do nothing But what indeed is honest to be done . Yet have I fierce affections , and think What Venus did with Mars .
Not so , my lord . Your ill angel is light , but I hope he that looks upon me will take me without weighing . And yet in some respects I grant I cannot go . I cannot tell . Virtue is of so little regard in these costermongers ' times that true valor is turned bear - herd; pregnancy is made a tapster , and hath his quick wit wasted in giving reckonings . All the other gifts appurtenant to man , as the malice of this age shapes them , are not worth a gooseberry . You that are old consider not the capacities of us that are young . You do measure the heat of our livers with the bitterness of your galls , and we that are in the vaward of our youth , I must confess , are wags too .
Well praised ! How if she be black and witty ?
No wonder , sir , But certainly a maid .
Treason ! Treason !
Well then , if ever I thank any man , I 'll thank you . But that they call " compliment " is like th ' encounter of two dog - apes . And when a man thanks me heartily , methinks I have given him a penny and he renders me the beggarly thanks . Come , sing . And you that will not , hold your tongues .
This is that banished haughty Montague , That murdered my love 's cousin , with which grief , It is supposed the fair creature died . And here is come to do some villainous shame To the dead bodies . I will apprehend him . Stop thy unhallowed toil , vile Montague ! Can vengeance be pursued further than death ? Condemned villain , I do apprehend thee . Obey and go with me , for thou must die .
Went they not quickly , I should die with laughing .
By my life , she will do as I do .
His excellence did earn it , ere he had it . When are you married , madam ?
Leonato and his brother . What think 'st thou ? Had we fought , I doubt we should have been too young for them .
Ay , with Cassio . Had she been true , If heaven would make me such another world Of one entire and perfect chrysolite , I 'd not have sold her for it .
How comes that ?
If we compose well here , to Parthia . Hark , Ventidius .
' Fore God , my lord , well spoken , with good accent and good discretion .
So let the Turk of Cyprus us beguile , We lose it not , so long as we can smile . He bears the sentence well that nothing bears But the free comfort which from thence he hears . But he bears both the sentence and the sorrow That , to pay grief , must of poor patience borrow . These sentences to sugar or to gall , Being strong on both sides , are equivocal . But words are words . I never yet did hear That the bruised heart was pierced through the ears . I humbly beseech you , proceed to th ' affairs of state .
Draw , you rascal . You come with letters against the king and take Vanity the puppet 's part against the royalty of her father . Draw , you rogue , or I 'll so carbonado your shanks . Draw , you rascal ! Come your ways .
We know each other 's faces ; for our hearts , He knows no more of mine than I of yours , Or I of his , my lord , than you of mine . -- Lord Hastings , you and he are near in love .
Sweet Moon , I thank thee for thy sunny beams . I thank thee , Moon , for shining now so bright . For by thy gracious , golden , glittering gleams , I trust to take of truest Thisbe sight . -- But stay , O spite ! But mark , poor knight , What dreadful dole is here ! Eyes , do you see ? How can it be ? O dainty duck ! O dear ! Thy mantle good , What , stained with blood ? Approach , ye Furies fell ! O Fates , come , come , Cut thread and thrum . Quail , crush , conclude , and quell !
Welcome , Sir Walter Blunt , and would to God You were of our determination . Some of us love you well , and even those some Envy your great deservings and good name Because you are not of our quality But stand against us like an enemy .
You , you , ay , you ! We have done our course . There 's money for your pains . I pray you , turn the key and keep our counsel .
My wits begin to turn . -- Come on , my boy . How dost , my boy ? Art cold ? I am cold myself . Where is this straw , my fellow ? The art of our necessities is strange That can make vile things precious . Come , your hovel . Poor fool and knave , I have one part in my heart That 's sorry yet for thee .
God bless your Grace ! We see it and will say it .
' Tis a brave army , and full of purpose .
Fear me not . -- She and the duke her husband !
Oh , that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill !
I 'll make the motion . Stand here , make a good show on ' t . This shall end without the perdition of souls . Marry , I 'll ride your horse as well as I ride you .
The handkerchief !
What , what , what ? Ill luck , ill luck ?
A jealous hood , a jealous hood !
What else ?
Ay , my lord -- So you will not o'errule me to a peace .
Sweet princes , what I did I did in honor , Led by th ' impartial conduct of my soul ; And never shall you see that I will beg A ragged and forestalled remission . If truth and upright innocency fail me , I 'll to the King my master that is dead And tell him who hath sent me after him .
Antonio , O my dear Antonio ! How have the hours racked and tortured me Since I have lost thee !
Never , my lord . But I have heard him oft maintain it to be fit that , sons at perfect age and fathers declined , the father should be as ward to the son , and the son manage his revenue .
Ha ? Again : Said he young Harry Percy 's spur was cold ? Of Hotspur , Coldspur ? That rebellion Had met ill luck ?
Let me wipe it first . It smells of mortality .
Nor I in yours Till I again see mine .
What , shall we forth ?
Why is my lord enraged against his love ?
Nay , then , give him another staff . This last was broke ' cross .
O thou dissembling cub ! What wilt thou be When time hath sowed a grizzle on thy case ? Or will not else thy craft so quickly grow That thine own trip shall be thine overthrow ? Farewell , and take her ; but direct thy feet Where thou and I henceforth may never meet .
Why , here in Denmark . I have been sexton here , man and boy , thirty years .
I am too sore enpierced with his shaft To soar with his light feathers , and so bound , I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe . Under love 's heavy burden do I sink .
They are the faction . O conspiracy , Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night When evils are most free ? O , then by day Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough To mask thy monstrous visage ? Seek none , conspiracy . Hide it in smiles and affability .
Who stocked my servant ? Regan , I have good hope Thou didst not know on ' t . --Who comes here ? O heavens , If you do love old men , if your sweet sway Allow obedience , if yourselves are old , Make it your cause . Send down , and take my part ! Art not ashamed to look upon this beard?- - O Regan , wilt thou take her by the hand ?
Soldier , thou art ; but his whole action grows Not in the power on ' t . So our leader 's led , And we are women 's men .
What 's the matter ? There be four of us here have ta'en a thousand pound this day morning .
He is slain .
He speaks well .
You 'll cry for this , minion , if I beat the door down .
The princes both make high account of you -- For they account his head upon the Bridge .
Gentle cousin , Let us go thank him and encourage him . My father 's rough and envious disposition Sticks me at heart . --Sir , you have well deserved . If you do keep your promises in love But justly , as you have exceeded all promise , Your mistress shall be happy .
What can man 's wisdom In the restoring his bereaved sense ? He that helps him take all my outward worth .
Most gracious majesty !
I love you the better ; the hearers may cry " Amen . "
Then the liars and swearers are fools , for there are liars and swearers enough to beat the honest men and hang up them .
Thus do they , sir : they take the flow o ' th ' Nile By certain scales i ' th ' Pyramid . They know By th ' height , the lowness , or the mean , if dearth Or foison follow . The higher Nilus swells The more it promises . As it ebbs , the seedsman Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain , And shortly comes to harvest .
You should not have believed me , for virtue cannot so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it . I loved you not .
I know the man . What is the sum he owes ?
No news so bad abroad as this at home : The king is sickly , weak and melancholy , And his physicians fear him mightily .
Monsieur le Fer .
That I neither feel how she should be loved nor know how she should be worthy is the opinion that fire cannot melt out of me . I will die in it at the stake .
I think he thinks upon the savage bull . Tush , fear not , man . We 'll tip thy horns with gold , And all Europa shall rejoice at thee As once Europa did at lusty Jove When he would play the noble beast in love .
This apoplexy will certain be his end .
Thus , sir : Although this lord of weak remembrance -- this , Who shall be of as little memory When he is earthed -- hath here almost persuade ( For he 's a spirit of persuasion only , Professes to persuade ) the king his son 's alive , ' Tis as impossible that he 's undrowned And he that sleeps here swims .
Master Constable , you go not the way to examine . You must call forth the watch that are their accusers .
Alas , sir , how fell you besides your five wits ?
Jesu , Jesu , dead ! He drew a good bow , and dead ? He shot a fine shoot . John o ' Gaunt loved him well , and betted much money on his head . Dead ! He would have clapped i ' th ' clout at twelve score , and carried you a forehand shaft a fourteen and fourteen and a half , that it would have done a man 's heart good to see . How a score of ewes now ?
And therefore will come .
I drink to the general joy o ' th ' whole table , And to our dear friend Banquo , whom we miss ; Would he were here ! To all and him we thirst , And all to all .
So it should be , that none but Antony Should conquer Antony , but woe ' tis so !
For the which , as I told you , Antonio shall be bound .
Well , God give them wisdom that have it . And those that are fools , let them use their talents .
No , by my soul . I never in my life Did hear a challenge urged more modestly , Unless a brother should a brother dare To gentle exercise and proof of arms . He gave you all the duties of a man , Trimmed up your praises with a princely tongue , Spoke your deservings like a chronicle , Making you ever better than his praise By still dispraising praise valued in you , And , which became him like a prince indeed , He made a blushing cital of himself , And chid his truant youth with such a grace As if he mastered there a double spirit Of teaching and of learning instantly . There did he pause : but let me tell the world : If he outlive the envy of this day , England did never owe so sweet a hope , So much misconstrued in his wantonness .
I beseech you , sir , to countenance William Visor of Woncot against Clement Perkes o ' th ' hill .
If you see vengeance --
I blame you not for praising Caesar so . But what compact mean you to have with us ? Will you be pricked in number of our friends ? Or shall we on , and not depend on you ?
Can the world buy such a jewel ?
O , had the gods done so , I had not now Worthily termed them merciless to us . For , ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues , We were encounterd by a mighty rock , Which being violently borne upon , Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst ; So that , in this unjust divorce of us , Fortune had left to both of us alike What to delight in , what to sorrow for . Her part , poor soul , seeming as burdened With lesser weight , but not with lesser woe , Was carried with more speed before the wind , And in our sight they three were taken up By fishermen of Corinth , as we thought . At length , another ship had seized on us And , knowing whom it was their hap to save , Gave healthful welcome to their shipwracked guests , And would have reft the fishers of their prey Had not their bark been very slow of sail ; And therefore homeward did they bend their course . Thus have you heard me severed from my bliss ; That by misfortunes was my life prolonged To tell sad stories of my own mishaps .
O , I die , Horatio . The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit . I cannot live to hear the news from England . But I do prophesy the election lights On Fortinbras . He has my dying voice . So tell him , with th ' occurrents , more and less , Which have solicited . The rest is silence . O , O , O , O .
We do not mean the coursing snatchers only , But fear the main intendment of the Scot , Who hath been still a giddy neighbor to us . For you shall read that my great-grandfather Never went with his forces into France But that the Scot on his unfurnished kingdom Came pouring like the tide into a breach With ample and brim fullness of his force , Galling the gleaned land with hot assays , Girding with grievous siege castles and towns , That England , being empty of defense , Hath shook and trembled at th ' ill neighborhood .
I would have you .
Very hardly , upon such a subject .
I am no villain . I am the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys . He was my father , and he is thrice a villain that says such a father begot villains . Wert thou not my brother , I would not take this hand from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy tongue for saying so . Thou hast railed on thyself .
Now cannot I strike him , if I should be hanged .
Good now , sit down and tell me , he that knows , Why this same strict and most observant watch So nightly toils the subject of the land , And why such daily cast of brazen cannon And foreign mart for implements of war , Why such impress of shipwrights , whose sore task Does not divide the Sunday from the week . What might be toward , that this sweaty haste Doth make the night joint laborer with the day ? Who is ' t that can inform me ?
As manhood shall compound . Push home .
What 's that ?
Prithee , peace .
He did , and with an absolute " Sir , not I , " The cloudy messenger turns me his back , And hums , as who should say " You 'll rue the time That clogs me with this answer . "
Think and die .
Your Highness told me I should post before .
An ' t be any way , it must be with valor , for policy I hate . I had as lief be a Brownist as a politician .
May a man do it ?
Now , sir , a new link to the bucket must needs be had . And , sir , do you mean to stop any of William 's wages about the sack he lost the other day at Hinckley Fair ?
Your way is shorter . My purposes do draw me much about . You 'll win two days upon me .
Madam , it is , so you stand pleased withal .
None in the world , nor do I know the man .
Ass , I doubt not .
I drink the air before me , and return Or ere your pulse twice beat .
Well , but what 's o'clock ?
The strings , my lord , are false .
You follow the young Prince up and down like his ill angel .
Why , then ' tis time to arm and give direction . His oration to his soldiers More than I have said , loving countrymen , The leisure and enforcement of the time Forbids to dwell upon . Yet remember this :
You know your own degrees ; sit down . At first And last , the hearty welcome .
Madam , yourself is not exempt in this , -- Nor you , son Dorset , --Buckingham , nor you . You have been factious one against the other . -- Wife , love Lord Hastings . Let him kiss your hand , And what you do , do it unfeignedly .
Drowned , drowned .
Hold your hands , Both you of my inclining and the rest . Were it my cue to fight , I should have known it Without a prompter . Whither will you that I go To answer this your charge ?
My gracious sovereign .
Sir , my mistress sends you word That she is busy , and she cannot come .
Thou hast some suit to Caesar , hast thou not ?
Yes , something you can deny for your own safety : you have been a great thief by sea .
By my faith , he is very swift and sententious .
Well , the gods give us joy .
Why then , we are awake . Let 's follow him And by the way let us recount our dreams .
Whither , my lord?- -Cesario , husband , stay .
Good madam , do . I warrant it grieves my husband As if the cause were his .
Bardolph , look to our horses .
But I pray you , ergo , old man , ergo , I beseech you , talk you of young Master Launcelot ?
I have sixty sails , Caesar none better .
O princely Buckingham , I 'll kiss thy hand In sign of league and amity with thee . Now fair befall thee and thy noble house ! Thy garments are not spotted with our blood , Nor thou within the compass of my curse .
No more but so ?
Not for thy fairy kingdom . --Fairies , away ! We shall chide downright , if I longer stay .
Come to the Centaur . Fetch our stuff from thence . I long that we were safe and sound aboard .
If the cook help to make the gluttony , you help to make the diseases , Doll . We catch of you , Doll , we catch of you . Grant that , my poor virtue , grant that .
O young and noble Cato , art thou down ? Why , now thou diest as bravely as Titinius , And mayst be honored , being Cato 's son .
Not a whit .
Whence cam 'st thou , worthy thane ?
To the gates of Tartar , thou most excellent devil of wit !
I 'll come to him .
Of Mantua , sir ? Marry , God forbid ! And come to Padua , careless of your life ?
So did you me , my liege .
Didst thou hear me ?
To whose hands You have sent the lunatic king . Speak .
Take their examination yourself and bring it me . I am now in great haste , as it may appear unto you .
Thou art an unjust man in saying so . Thou or any man knows where to have me , thou knave , thou .
There 's a strong fellow , Menas .
O good my lord , I would speak a word with you !
That young swain that you saw here but erewhile , That little cares for buying anything .
What , master , read you ? First resolve me that .
Now , Travers , what good tidings comes with you ?
Here , sir .
What is he that builds stronger than either the mason , the shipwright , or the carpenter ?
Wherever sorrow is , relief would be . If you do sorrow at my grief in love , By giving love your sorrow and my grief Were both extermined .
Sir , they are spoken , and these things are true .
That a woman conceived me , I thank her . That she brought me up , I likewise give her most humble thanks . But that I will have a recheat winded in my forehead or hang my bugle in an invisible baldrick , all women shall pardon me . Because I will not do them the wrong to mistrust any , I will do myself the right to trust none . And the fine is , for the which I may go the finer , I will live a bachelor .
One horse , my lord , he brought even now .
Long live the king !
Stand close .
You must speak louder . My master is deaf .
Well , say , sir .
If we know him to be a thief , shall we not lay hands on him ?
I cannot now speak . I will hear you soon . -- Take them away .
O , this boy lends mettle to us all .
I will do any modest office , my lord , to help my cousin to a good husband .
I go . An if you plead as well for them As I can say " nay " to thee for myself , No doubt we bring it to a happy issue .
Where is my gracious lord of Canterbury ?
Some god direct my judgment ! Let me see . I will survey th ' inscriptions back again . What says this leaden casket ? " Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath . " Must give -- for what ? For lead ? Hazard for lead ? This casket threatens . Men that hazard all Do it in hope of fair advantages . A golden mind stoops not to shows of dross . I 'll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead . What says the silver with her virgin hue ?
Ah , Luciana , did he tempt thee so ? Mightst thou perceive austerely in his eye That he did plead in earnest , yea or no ? Looked he or red or pale , or sad or merrily ? What observation mad 'st thou in this case Of his heart 's meteors tilting in his face ?
What speech , my good lord ?
The weight of this sad time we must obey . Speak what we feel , not what we ought to say . The oldest hath borne most . We that are young Shall never see so much , nor live so long .
" And in part him , but , " you may say , " not well . But , if ' t be he I mean , he 's very wild . Addicted so and so . -- " And there put on him What forgeries you please . Marry , none so rank As may dishonor him . Take heed of that . But , sir , such wanton , wild , and usual slips
Ay , and said nothing but what I protest intendment of doing .
The fig of Spain !
Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol ?
And I.
We will ourselves provide . Most holy and religious fear it is To keep those many , many bodies safe That live and feed upon your majesty .
' Tis not unknown to you , Antonio , How much I have disabled mine estate , By something showing a more swelling port Than my faint means would grant continuance . Nor do I now make moan to be abridged From such a noble rate . But my chief care
I thought the king had more affected the Duke of Albany than Cornwall .
Ay , Casca . Tell us what hath chanced today That Caesar looks so sad .
Tybalt , the kinsman to old Capulet , Hath sent a letter to his father 's house .
Shall I deny you ? No. Farewell , my lord .
Nor tripped neither , you base football player .
Ay , truly , for the power of beauty will sooner transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can translate beauty into his likeness . This was sometime a paradox , but now the time gives it proof . I did love you once .
The word of peace is rendered . Hark how they shout .
Alack , what noise is this ?
The sweetest sleep and fairest - boding dreams That ever entered in a drowsy head Have I since your departure had , my lords . Methought their souls whose bodies Richard murdered Came to my tent and cried on victory . I promise you , my soul is very jocund In the remembrance of so fair a dream . How far into the morning is it , lords ?
Still it cried , " Sleep no more ! " to all the house . " Glamis hath murdered sleep , and therefore Cawdor Shall sleep no more . Macbeth shall sleep no more . "
How now , Captain Fluellen ? Come you from the bridge ?
Good morrow , noble sir .
Let us to the great supper . Their cheer is the greater that I am subdued . Would the cook were o ' my mind ! Shall we go prove what 's to be done ?
That face of his I do remember well . Yet , when I saw it last , it was besmeared As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war . A baubling vessel was he captain of , For shallow draught and bulk unprizable , With which such scathful grapple did he make With the most noble bottom of our fleet , That very envy and the tongue of loss Cried fame and honor on him . --What 's the matter ?
Here , sir , but trouble him not . His wits are gone .
Faith , it does me ; though it discolors the complexion of my greatness to acknowledge it . Doth it not show vilely in me to desire small beer ?
Music i ' th ' air .
Sweet Beatrice , wouldst thou come when I called thee ?
Go , one of you , find out the forester . For now our observation is performed . And since we have the vaward of the day , My love shall hear the music of my hounds . Uncouple in the western valley . Let them go . Dispatch , I say , and find the forester .
Why , in good time .
' Tis true , for those that she makes fair she scarce makes honest , and those that she makes honest she makes very ill - favoredly .
Hark ! More knocking . Get on your nightgown , lest occasion call us And show us to be watchers . Be not lost So poorly in your thoughts .
Pardon , my lord .
This will I show the General . Please you , lords , In sight of both our battles we may meet , And either end in peace , which God so frame , Or to the place of difference call the swords Which must decide it .
I wish your horses swift and sure of foot , And so I do commend you to their backs . Farewell .
Ay , for a turtle , as he takes a buzzard .
Free , madam , no . I made no such report . He 's bound unto Octavia .
Cicero one ?
Marry , if thou wert an honest man , thyself and the money too . Thou didst swear to me upon a parcel - gilt goblet , sitting in my Dolphin chamber at the round table by a sea - coal fire , upon Wednesday in Wheeson week , when the Prince broke thy head for liking his father to a singing - man of Windsor , thou didst swear to me then , as I was washing thy wound , to marry me and make me my lady thy wife . Canst thou deny it ? Did not goodwife Keech , the butcher 's wife , come in then and call me Gossip Quickly , coming in to borrow a mess of vinegar ; telling us she had a good dish of prawns , whereby thou didst desire to eat some , whereby I told thee they were ill for a green wound ? And didst thou not , when she was gone downstairs , desire me to be no more so familiarity with
I 'll stay a month longer . I am a fellow o ' th ' strangest mind i ' th ' world . I delight in masques and revels sometimes altogether .
I will forget my nature . So kind a father ! --Be my horses ready ?
Nothing , my lord .
Which be the malefactors ?
Good night .
Unmerciful lady as you are , I 'm none .
I am satisfied . Caesar sits down in Alexandria , where I will oppose his fate . Our force by land Hath nobly held . Our severed navy too Have knit again , and fleet , threat'ning most sealike . Where hast thou been , my heart ? Dost thou hear , lady ? If from the field I shall return once more To kiss these lips , I will appear in blood . I and my sword will earn our chronicle . There 's hope in ' t yet .
They do not go together .
You should in all sense be much bound to him . For as I hear he was much bound for you .
Now , Signior , where 's the Count ? Did you see him ?
Are you good men and true ?
None , my lord , but that the world 's grown honest .
He is not here , so please your lordship , that should sing it .
You are as well provided of both as any prince in the world .
Farewell , good Salisbury , and good luck go with thee .
Come , Kate , and wash , and welcome heartily . -- You whoreson villain ! Will you let it fall ? Strikes him
When every grief is entertained that 's offered , Comes to th ' entertainer --
Indeed , indeed , sirs , but this troubles me . Hold you the watch tonight ?
Good madam , what 's the matter with my lord ?
Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through the guts of a beggar .
My lord , I have .
Now when thou wakest , with thine own fool 's eyes peep .
That is the sum of all , Leonato . --Signior Claudio and Signior Benedick , my dear friend Leonato hath invited you all . I tell him we shall stay here at the least a month , and he heartily prays some occasion may detain us longer . I dare swear he is no hypocrite but prays from his heart .
So you shall . And where the offense is , let the great ax fall . I pray you , go with me .
I am good friends with my father and may do anything .
Nay , come , tell Iras hers .
O Lord , Lord , it is a hard matter for friends to meet , but mountains may be removed with earthquakes and so encounter .
I am sorry to hear this .
Doing is activity , and he will still be doing .
Why , Fool ?
It is . May it be done ?
Brutus , a word with you . You know not what you do . Do not consent That Antony speak in his funeral . Know you how much the people may be moved By that which he will utter ?
Thus ever did rebellion find rebuke . -- Ill - spirited Worcester , did not we send grace , Pardon , and terms of love to all of you ? And wouldst thou turn our offers contrary , Misuse the tenor of thy kinsman 's trust ? Three knights upon our party slain today , A noble earl , and many a creature else Had been alive this hour , If like a Christian thou hadst truly borne Betwixt our armies true intelligence .
Philomel , with melody Sing in our sweet lullaby . Lulla , lulla , lullaby , lulla , lulla , lullaby . Never harm Nor spell nor charm Come our lovely lady nigh . So good night , with lullaby .
Here is the money .
That , trusted home , Might yet enkindle you unto the crown , Besides the thane of Cawdor . But ' tis strange . And oftentimes , to win us to our harm , The instruments of darkness tell us truths , Win us with honest trifles , to betray 's In deepest consequence . Cousins , a word , I pray you .
Oh , thy vile lady ! She has robbed me of my sword .
Come , captain , will you go ?
You were best to call them generally , man by man , according to the scrip .
Indeed ? I heard it not . It then draws near the season Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk .
What means your lordship ?
Well , we leave that to the proof .
Do , do . He 'll but break a comparison or two on me , which , peradventure not marked or not laughed at , strikes him into melancholy , and then there 's a partridge wing saved , for the fool will eat no supper that night .
Saving your tale , Petruchio , I pray Let us that are poor petitioners speak too . Bacare , you are marvelous forward .
Most mischievous foul sin in chiding sin , For thou thyself hast been a libertine , As sensual as the brutish sting itself , And all th ' embossed sores and headed evils That thou with license of free foot hast caught Wouldst thou disgorge into the general world .
And I , my lord .
We will yet do well .
First , forward to the temple . After dinner Your hazard shall be made .
Well , then I shall see thee again ?
Now here 's another discontented paper Found in his pocket too , and this , it seems , Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain But that , belike , Iago in the interim Came in and satisfied him .
Why then , resolve me whether you will or no .
Ay , are you thereabouts ? Why then , good night indeed .
The service and the loyalty I owe In doing it pays itself . Your highness ' part Is to receive our duties , and our duties Are to your throne and state children and servants , Which do but what they should , by doing everything Safe toward your love and honor .
Would all were well -- but that will never be . I fear our happiness is at the height .
Which I will do with confirmed countenance .
My lord , I take my leave .
I do assure you , ' tis against my will .
Then shall we be news - crammed .
How lush and lusty the grass looks ! How green !
She bids you on the wanton rushes lay you down And rest your gentle head upon her lap , And she will sing the song that pleaseth you And on your eyelids crown the god of sleep , Charming your blood with pleasing heaviness , Making such difference ' twixt wake and sleep As is the difference betwixt day and night The hour before the heavenly harnessed team Begins his golden progress in the east .
Who , Sir Andrew Aguecheek ?
Would not this nave of a wheel have his ears cut off ?
An if they live , I hope I need not fear . But come , my lord . With a heavy heart , Thinking on them , go I unto the Tower .
Persuade me to the murder of your lordship , But that I told him the revenging gods ' Gainst parricides did all the thunder bend , Spoke with how manifold and strong a bond The child was bound to th ' father . Sir , in fine , Seeing how loathly opposite I stood To his unnatural purpose , in fell motion , With his prepared sword he charges home My unprovided body , latched mine arm . And when he saw my best alarumed spirits , Bold in the quarrel 's right , roused to the encounter , Or whether ghasted by the noise I made , Full suddenly he fled .
Believe me , no . I thank my fortune for it -- My ventures are not in one bottom trusted , Nor to one place , nor is my whole estate Upon the fortune of this present year . Therefore my merchandise makes me not sad .
The duke of Exeter is as magnanimous as Agamemnon , and a man that I love and honor with my soul and my heart and my duty and my life and my living and my uttermost power . He is not , God be praised and blessed , any hurt in the world , but keeps the bridge most valiantly , with excellent discipline . There is an aunchient lieutenant there at the pridge . I think in my very conscience he is as valiant a man as Mark Antony , and he is a man of no estimation in the world , but I did see him do as gallant service .
Very ill .
This is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings , Which in a set hand fairly is engrossed , That it may be today read o'er in Paul 's . And mark how well the sequel hangs together : Eleven hours I have spent to write it over , For yesternight by Catesby was it sent me ; The precedent was full as long a - doing , And yet within these five hours Hastings lived , Untainted , unexamined , free , at liberty . Here 's a good world the while . Who is so gross That cannot see this palpable device ? Yet who so bold but says he sees it not ? Bad is the world , and all will come to naught When such ill dealing must be seen in thought .
In my chamber window lies a book . Bring it hither to me in the orchard .
Will you not eat your word ?
Ceres , most bounteous lady , thy rich leas Of wheat , rye , barley , vetches , oats , and peas ; Thy turfy mountains , where live nibbling sheep , And flat meads thatched with stover , them to keep ; Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims ,
Que dit-il ? Que je suis semblable a les anges ?
Trembled and shook , for why he stamped and swore As if the vicar meant to cozen him . But after many ceremonies done , He calls for wine . " A health ! " quoth he , as if He had been aboard , carousing to his mates After a storm ; quaffed off the muscatel And threw the sops all in the sexton 's face , Having no other reason But that his beard grew thin and hungerly And seemed to ask him sops as he was drinking . This done , he took the bride about the neck And kissed her lips with such a clamorous smack That at the parting all the church did echo . And I , seeing this , came thence for very shame , And after me , I know , the rout is coming . Such a mad marriage never was before .
Then none have I offended . I have done no more to Caesar than you shall do to Brutus . The question of his death is enrolled in the Capitol . His glory not extenuated wherein he was worthy , nor his offenses enforced for which he suffered death .
Ay , he was porn at Monmouth , Captain Gower . What call you the town 's name where Alexander the Pig was born ?
Nay , I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I break my shins against it .
Zounds , ye fat paunch , an you call me coward , by the Lord , I 'll stab thee .
How doth my son and brother ? Thou tremblest , and the whiteness in thy cheek Is apter than thy tongue to tell thy errand . Even such a man , so faint , so spiritless , So dull , so dead in look , so woebegone , Drew Priam 's curtain in the dead of night , And would have told him half his Troy was burnt ; But Priam found the fire ere he his tongue , And I my Percy 's death ere thou report 'st it . This thou wouldst say , " Your son did thus and thus ; Your brother thus ; so fought the noble Douglas " -- Stopping my greedy ear with their bold deeds . But in the end , to stop my ear indeed , Thou hast a sigh to blow away this praise , Ending with " Brother , son , and all are dead . "
I cannot blame him . Was not he proclaimed By Richard , that dead is , the next of blood ?
By this leek , I will most horribly revenge . I eat and eat , I swear --
Let me have audience for a word or two . I am the second son of old Sir Rowland , That bring these tidings to this fair assembly . Duke Frederick , hearing how that every day Men of great worth resorted to this forest , Addressed a mighty power , which were on foot In his own conduct , purposely to take His brother here and put him to the sword . And to the skirts of this wild wood he came , Where , meeting with an old religious man , After some question with him , was converted Both from his enterprise and from the world , His crown bequeathing to his banished brother , And all their lands restored to them again That were with him exiled . This to be true I do engage my life .
Hast thou drunk well ?
Peace , fool . He 's not thy kinsman .
You may as well forbid the mountain pines To wag their high tops and to make no noise When they are fretten with the gusts of heaven . You may as well do anything most hard , As seek to soften that -- than which what 's harder?- - His Jewish heart . Therefore I do beseech you Make no more offers , use no farther means , But with all brief and plain conveniency Let me have judgment and the Jew his will .
I will have my revenge ere I depart his house .
Nay , I 'll help too . What 's this for ?
' Tis well th'art gone , If it be well to live , but better ' twere Thou fell 'st into my fury , for one death Might have prevented many . --Eros , ho ! -- The shirt of Nessus is upon me . Teach me , Alcides , thou mine ancestor , thy rage . Let me lodge Lichas on the horns o ' th ' moon , And with those hands that grasped the heaviest club Subdue my worthiest self . The witch shall die . To the young Roman boy she hath sold me , and I fall Under this plot . She dies for ' t . --Eros , ho !
It was his bidding . Therefore , good Emilia , Give me my nightly wearing , and adieu . We must not now displease him .
Thereafter as they be , a score of good ewes may be worth ten pounds .
Why this , Volumnius : The ghost of Caesar hath appeared to me Two several times by night . At Sardis once , And this last night here in Philippi fields . I know my hour is come .
You amaze me , ladies . I would have told you of good wrestling , which you have lost the sight of .
It is the quality o ' th ' climate .
Follow me . Thou shalt serve me . If I like thee no worse after dinner , I will not part from thee yet . --Dinner , ho , dinner ! Where 's my knave , my fool?- -Go you , and call my fool hither .
O sun , Burn the great sphere thou mov 'st in . Darkling stand The varying shore o ' th ' world ! O Antony , Antony , Antony ! Help , Charmian , help , Iras , help ! Help , friends below ! Let 's draw him hither .
Out , fool .
But there is Mordake , Vernon , Lord Harry Percy , And there is my Lord of Worcester and a head Of gallant warriors , noble gentlemen .
A senseless villain , good Hortensio . I bade the rascal knock upon your gate And could not get him for my heart to do it .
Now Mercury endue thee with leasing , for thou speakest well of fools !
Down with him , thief !
He , woman . I say " thy husband " --dost understand the word ? My friend , thy husband , honest , honest Iago .
Yea , dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth ? Think 'st thou I jest ? Hold , take thou that and that .
So , by being too curst , God will send you no horns .
It goes on , I see , As my soul prompts it . --Spirit , fine spirit ! I 'll free thee Within two days for this .
Here is thy fee . Arrest him , officer . I would not spare my brother in this case If he should scorn me so apparently .
Tend me tonight . May be it is the period of your duty . Haply you shall not see me more , or if , A mangled shadow . Perchance tomorrow You 'll serve another master . I look on you As one that takes his leave . Mine honest friends , I turn you not away , but , like a master Married to your good service , stay till death . Tend me tonight two hours , I ask no more , And the gods yield you for ' t !
Yea , by Mass , that it is .
The duke and senators of Venice greet you .
What says my lord ?
By yea and no , sir . I dare say my cousin William is become a good scholar . He is at Oxford still , is he not ?
What sayest thou to a hare , or the melancholy of Moorditch ?
But are they , Ariel , safe ?
By a name I know not how to tell thee who I am . My name , dear saint , is hateful to myself Because it is an enemy to thee . Had I it written , I would tear the word .
We are men , my liege .
Indeed , upon my sword , indeed .
Draw , Benvolio . Beat down their weapons . Gentlemen , for shame ! Forbear this outrage . Tybalt , Mercutio ! The Prince expressly hath Forbidden bandying in Verona streets . Hold , Tybalt ! Good Mercutio !
Do you busy yourself about that ?
He did command me to call timely on him . I have almost slipped the hour .
Oh , I am out of breath in this fond chase . The more my prayer , the lesser is my grace . Happy is Hermia , wheresoe'er she lies , For she hath blessed and attractive eyes . How came her eyes so bright ? Not with salt tears . If so , my eyes are oftener washed than hers . No , no , I am as ugly as a bear , For beasts that meet me run away for fear . Therefore no marvel though Demetrius Do , as a monster , fly my presence thus . What wicked and dissembling glass of mine Made me compare with Hermia 's sphery eyne ? But who is here ? Lysander , on the ground ? Dead or asleep ? I see no blood , no wound . -- Lysander , if you live , good sir , awake .
Right , sir , I 'll tell you when an you tell me wherefore .
I must confess that I have heard so much And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof , But being overfull of self - affairs , My mind did lose it . --But , Demetrius , come . And come , Egeus . You shall go with me . I have some private schooling for you both . -- For you , fair Hermia , look you arm yourself To fit your fancies to your father 's will , Or else the law of Athens yields you up To death , or to a vow of single life . -- Come , my Hippolyta . What cheer , my love?- - Demetrius and Egeus , go along . I must employ you in some business Against our nuptial and confer with you Of something nearly that concerns yourselves .
Madam , it so fell out , that certain players We o'erraught on the way . Of these we told him , And there did seem in him a kind of joy
I should think this a gull but that the white-bearded fellow speaks it . Knavery cannot , sure , hide himself in such reverence .
Well , I am not fair , and therefore I pray the gods make me honest .
Not so , not so . I know you could not lack , I am certain on ' t , Very necessity of this thought , that I , Your partner in the cause ' gainst which he fought , Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars Which fronted mine own peace . As for my wife , I would you had her spirit in such another . The third o ' th ' world is yours , which with a snaffle You may pace easy , but not such a wife .
There 's my exchange . What in the world he is That names me traitor , villainlike he lies . Call by thy trumpet . He that dares approach , On him --on you , who not?- -I will maintain My truth and honor firmly .
No , no , the bell . ' Tis time that I were gone . It was two ere I left him , and now the clock strikes one .
How ! Not dead ? Not dead ? The guard , ho ! Oh , dispatch me !
I will do my good will , sir . You can have no more .
At nine i ' th ' morning here we 'll meet again . Othello , leave some officer behind And he shall our commission bring to you , And such things else of quality and respect As doth import you .
You are a senator !
Hold him in safety till the Prince come hither .
We are blessed in the change .
She 's the worse for all this .
We will , my noble lord .
Who offered him the crown ?
But mine , and mine I loved , and mine I praised , And mine that I was proud on , mine so much That I myself was to myself not mine , Valuing of her -- why , she , O she is fall'n Into a pit of ink , that the wide sea Hath drops too few to wash her clean again And salt too little which may season give To her foul tainted flesh !
Oh , yes , and soundless too . For you have stol'n their buzzing , Antony , And very wisely threat before you sting .
Is ' t possible ?
I am full sorry That he approves the common liar , who Thus speaks of him at Rome , but I will hope Of better deeds tomorrow . Rest you happy !
Ay , amen !
I will , sir .
I pray you , think you question with the Jew ? You may as well go stand upon the beach And bid the main flood bate his usual height . You may as well use question with the wolf Why he hath made the ewe bleat for the lamb .
A friend ? What friend ? Your name , I pray you , friend ?
Farewell , my dearest sister , fare thee well . The elements be kind to thee and make Thy spirits all of comfort ! Fare thee well .
My noble lord --
And I his clerk . Therefore be well advised How you do leave me to mine own protection .
Come , sir , away .
And for three months .
Shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly . For though she 's as like this as a crab 's like an apple , yet I can tell what I can tell .
Ay , marry , is ' t . But to my mind , though I am native here And to the manner born , it is a custom More honored in the breach than the observance . This heavy - headed revel east and west Makes us traduced and taxed of other nations .
I love thee better than I love e' er a scurvy young boy of them all .
I go , I go .
Pray , do not mock me . I am a very foolish fond old man , Fourscore and upward , not an hour more nor less . And to deal plainly I fear I am not in my perfect mind . Methinks I should know you , and know this man .
But , my lads , my lads , tomorrow morning , by four o'clock , early at Gad 's Hill , there are pilgrims going to Canterbury with rich offerings , and traders riding to London with fat purses . I have vizards for you all . You have horses for yourselves . Gadshill lies tonight in Rochester . I have bespoke supper tomorrow night in Eastcheap . We may do it as secure as sleep . If you will go , I will stuff your purses full of crowns . If you will not , tarry at home and be hanged .
What enterprise , Popillius ?
An I might see you there , Davy !
My brother general , the commonwealth , To brother born an household cruelty , I make my quarrel in particular .
Come , sir , I would you would make use of that good wisdom Whereof I know you are fraught , and put away These dispositions that of late transform you From what you rightly are .
Know the glove ! I know the glove is a glove .
Alack , sir , no , her passions are made of nothing but the finest part of pure love . We cannot call her winds and waters sighs and tears . They are greater storms and tempests than almanacs can report . This cannot be cunning in her . If it be , she makes a shower of rain as well as Jove .
And let her speak of me before her father . If you do find me foul in her report The trust , the office I do hold of you , Not only take away , but let your sentence Even fall upon my life .
The hours come back . That did I never hear .
Tarry a little . There is something else . This bond doth give thee here no jot of blood . The words expressly are " a pound of flesh . " Take then thy bond , take thou thy pound of flesh , But in the cutting it if thou dost shed One drop of Christian blood , thy lands and goods Are by the laws of Venice confiscate Unto the state of Venice .
Five shillings to one on ' t , with any man that knows the statutes , he may stay him -- marry , not without the Prince be willing , for indeed the watch ought to offend no man , and it is an offense to stay a man against his will .
Say again , where didst thou leave these varlets ?
Sir , here 's the door . This is Lucentio 's house . My father 's bears more toward the marketplace . Thither must I , and here I leave you , sir .
I have one thing more to ask him yet , good Charmian -- But ' tis no matter ; thou shalt bring him to me Where I will write . All may be well enough .
Sirrah , go you to Barthol'mew , my page , And see him dressed in all suits like a lady . That done , conduct him to the drunkard 's chamber And call him " madam , " do him obeisance . Tell him from me , as he will win my love , He bear himself with honorable action , Such as he hath observed in noble ladies Unto their lords , by them accomplished .
Even so void is your false heart of truth . By heaven , I will ne'er come in your bed Until I see the ring .
Stand here by me , Master Robert Shallow . I will make the King do you grace . I will leer upon him as he comes by , and do but mark the countenance that he will give me .
A contract of eternal bond of love , Confirmed by mutual joinder of your hands , Attested by the holy close of lips , Strengthened by interchangement of your rings , And all the ceremony of this compact Sealed in my function , by my testimony , Since when , my watch hath told me , toward my grave I have traveled but two hours .
Phoebe , with all my heart .
You cloudy princes and heart - sorrowing peers That bear this heavy mutual load of moan , Now cheer each other in each other 's love . Though we have spent our harvest of this king , We are to reap the harvest of his son . The broken rancor of your high - swoll'n hates , But lately splintered , knit , and joined together , Must gently be preserved , cherished , and kept . Meseemeth good that with some little train Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fet Hither to London , to be crowned our king .
I knew ' twas I , for many do call me fool .
Murder ?
A greater gift ? O , that 's the sword to it .
Here 's Lucentio , right son to the right Vincentio , That have by marriage made thy daughter mine While counterfeit supposes bleared thine eyne .
Believe me , I had rather have lost my purse Full of crusadoes . And but my noble Moor Is true of mind and made of no such baseness As jealous creatures are , it were enough To put him to ill thinking .
By ' r lakin , a parlous fear .
Romeo shall thank thee , daughter , for us both .
What news abroad ?
Shall I do such a deed ?
Good Master Fabian , grant me another request .
I would the friends we miss were safe arrived .
And so they are .
I would ' twere bedtime , Hal , and all well .
' Tis now but four o'clock . We have two hours To furnish us .
Which he calls " interest . " Cursed be my tribe If I forgive him !
Clap 's into " Light o ' love . " That goes without a burden . Do you sing it , and I 'll dance it .
I do beseech your Grace to pardon me , and withal Forbear your conference with the noble duke .
Here had we now our country 's honor roofed , Were the graced person of our Banquo present , Who may I rather challenge for unkindness Than pity for mischance .
I would speak with Clarence , and I came hither on my legs .
Et le coude ?
My lord , as I was sewing in my closet , Lord Hamlet , with his doublet all unbraced ; No hat upon his head ; his stockings fouled , Ungartered , and down - gyved to his ankle ; Pale as his shirt ; his knees knocking each other ; And with a look so piteous in purport As if he had been loosed out of hell To speak of horrors -- he comes before me .
Lead away .
Dost thou love pictures ? We will fetch thee straight Adonis painted by a running brook And Cytherea all in sedges hid , Which seem to move and wanton with her breath , Even as the waving sedges play with wind .
" Fair sir , you spet on me on Wednesday last ; You spurned me such a day ; another time You called me ' dog ' -- and for these courtesies I 'll lend you thus much moneys ? "
I 'll see her damned first to Pluto 's damned lake , by this hand , to th ' infernal deep with Erebus and tortures vile also . Hold hook and line , say I. Down , down , dogs ! Down , Fates ! Have we not Hiren here ?
With most gladness , And do invite you to my sister 's view , Whither straight I 'll lead you .
Bottom ! O most courageous day ! O most happy hour !
Go you , call hither my fool .
Then would to Heaven that I had never seen ' t !
Doubtful it stood , As two spent swimmers that do cling together And choke their art . The merciless Macdonwald -- Worthy to be a rebel , for to that The multiplying villanies of nature Do swarm upon him -- from the Western Isles Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied , And fortune , on his damned quarrel smiling , Showed like a rebel 's whore . But all' s too weak , For brave Macbeth -- well he deserves that name -- Disdaining fortune , with his brandished steel , Which smoked with bloody execution , Like valor 's minion carved out his passage Till he faced the slave ; Which ne'er shook hands , nor bade farewell to him , Till he unseamed him from the nave to th ' chops , And fixed his head upon our battlements .
Come hither , Leonato . What was it you told me of today , that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signor Benedick ?
I cannot speak . If my heart be not ready to burst -- well , sweet Jack , have a care of thyself .
Do , with like timorous accent and dire yell As when , by night and negligence , the fire Is spied in populous cities .
Very well . Follow that lord , and look you mock him not .
Thanks , Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern .
Dost thou think Alexander looked o ' this fashion i ' th ' earth ?
Thine , Claudio , thine , I say .
You scarcely have the hearts to tell me so , And therefore cannot have the hearts to do it . Wherein , my friends , have I offended you ?
Good your highness , patience .
Let me but meet you ladies one hour hence , And I 'll salute your Grace of York as mother And reverend looker - on , of two fair queens . Come , madam , you must straight to Westminster , There to be crowned Richard 's royal queen .
My lord .
Take him up gently , and to bed with him , And each one to his office when he wakes .
He hath .
Come hither , crack - hemp .
I am , my lord , but as my betters are That led me hither . Had they been ruled by me , You should have won them dearer than you have .
He 's walking in the garden -- thus , and spurns The rush that lies before him ; cries , " Fool Lepidus ! " And threats the throat of that his officer That murdered Pompey .
I could not send it -- here it is again -- Nor get a messenger to bring it thee , So fearful were they of infection .
Pray you pacify yourself , Sir John . There comes no swaggerers here .
If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye , I can tell who should down .
Come , boy .
O , that thou wert not , poor distressed soul !
O strange and fastened villain ! Would he deny his letter , said he ? I never got him . -- Hark , the duke 's trumpets . I know not why he comes . All ports I 'll bar . The villain shall not ' scape . The duke must grant me that . Besides , his picture I will send far and near , that all the kingdom May have the due note of him . --And of my land , Loyal and natural boy , I 'll work the means To make thee capable .
I would fain prove so . But what might you think , When I had seen this hot love on the wing -- As I perceived it , I must tell you that , Before my daughter told me -- what might you , Or my dear majesty your queen here , think , If I had played the desk or table - book , Or given my heart a winking , mute and dumb , Or looked upon this love with idle sight ? What might you think ? No , I went round to work , And my young mistress thus I did bespeak : " Lord Hamlet is a prince out of thy star . This must not be . " And then I prescripts gave her , That she should lock herself from his resort , Admit no messengers , receive no tokens . Which done , she took the fruits of my advice ; And he , repelled -- a short tale to make -- Fell into a sadness , then into a fast , Thence to a watch , thence into a weakness , Thence to a lightness , and , by this declension , Into the madness wherein now he raves And all we mourn for .
He hath been out nine years , and away he shall again .
Do , cuff him soundly , but never draw thy sword .
O , very well , I have perused the note . Hark you , sir : I 'll have them very fairly bound , All books of love . See that at any hand , And see you read no other lectures to her . You understand me . Over and beside Signior Baptista 's liberality , I 'll mend it with a largess . Take your paper too . And let me have them very well perfum 'd For she is sweeter than perfume itself To whom they go to . What will you read to her ?
I will speak to him like a saucy lackey , and under that habit play the knave with him . --Do you hear , forester ?
Indeed , sir , to my cost .
Ay , Celia , we stayed her for your sake . Else had she with her father ranged along .
Go , Dromio . There 's the money . Bear it straight , And bring thy master home immediately . Come , sister , I am pressed down with conceit : Conceit , my comfort and my injury .
I should have been a sore one then .
At a word , I am not .
All vitlars do so . What 's a joint of mutton or two in a whole Lent ?
I will , my liege .
Good morrow , sweet Hal . --What says Monsieur Remorse ? What says Sir John Sack - and - Sugar ? Jack , how agrees the devil and thee about thy soul that thou soldest him on Good Friday last for a cup of Madeira and a cold capon 's leg ?
What concern they ? The general cause , or is it a fee - grief Due to some single breast ?
Well , sir , good night .
This letter doth make good the friar 's words , Their course of love , the tidings of her death . And here he writes that he did buy a poison Of a poor ' pothecary , and therewithal Came to this vault to die and lie with Juliet . Where be these enemies?- -Capulet! Montague ! See what a scourge is laid upon your hate , That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love ! And I , for winking at your discords , too Have lost a brace of kinsmen . All are punished .
Well , my good lady . -- Oh , hardness to dissemble ! -- How do you , Desdemona ?
Sirrah , go hire me twenty cunning cooks .
Not so , sir , I do care for something . But in my conscience , sir , I do not care for you . If that be to care for nothing , sir , I would it would make you invisible .
Indeed , I never shall be satisfied With Romeo , till I behold him --dead -- Is my poor heart for a kinsman vexed . Madam , if you could find out but a man To bear a poison , I would temper it , That Romeo should , upon receipt thereof , Soon sleep in quiet . Oh , how my heart abhors To hear him named , and cannot come to him . To wreak the love I bore my cousin Upon his body that slaughtered him !
There 's none but witches do inhabit here , And therefore ' tis high time that I were hence . She that doth call me husband , even my soul Doth for a wife abhor . But her fair sister , Possessed with such a gentle sovereign grace ,
No , good mother . Here 's metal more attractive .
Falstaff ! -- Fast asleep behind the arras , and snorting like a horse .
Who 's there ?
Sirrah -- you , boy -- and Bardolph , no word to your master that I am yet come to town . There 's for your silence .
Farewell , good brother . We shall thrive , I trust .
What 's he ?
Is thy master stirring ?
Thou liest .
What , hath your grace no better company ?
I prithee , who ?
Away , make haste . Thou know 'st where I will tarry .
That is Laertes , a very noble youth , mark .
I shall grow jealous of you shortly , Launcelot , if you thus get my wife into corners .
Thou'rt i ' the right . Go , sir , rub your chain with crumbs . A stoup of wine , Maria !
What sights , my lord ?
See , they encounter thee with their hearts ' thanks . Both sides are even . Here I 'll sit i ' th ' midst . Be large in mirth . Anon we 'll drink a measure The table round .
Why , so this gallant will command the sun .
By this reck'ning he is more shrew than she .
Good morrow , Lieutenant Bardolph .
Can you inquire him out and be edified by report ?
And of women .
' Tis one o'clock , and past .
So shall I , love , And so , I pray , be you . Let your remembrance Apply to Banquo ; present him eminence , Both with eye and tongue : unsafe the while that we Must lave our honors in these flattering streams , And make our faces vizards to our hearts , Disguising what they are .
I will lay trust upon thee , and thou shalt find a dearer father in my love .
" Servant-monster " ? The folly of this island . They say there 's but five upon this isle . We are three of them . If th ' other two be brained like us , the state totters .
On , Bardolph . Lead the men away .
How now , what 's the matter ?
I 'll do ' t , my lord .
Another hit . What say you ?
I have night 's cloak to hide me from their eyes , And but thou love me , let them find me here . My life were better ended by their hate Than death prorogued , wanting of thy love .
These strong Egyptian fetters I must break , Or lose myself in dotage .
And fixed his eyes upon you ?
We do , my lord .
Peace , peace , for shame , if not for charity .
You have taken it wiselier than I meant you should .
When came he to this town ?
With what a sharp - provided wit he reasons ! To mitigate the scorn he gives his uncle , He prettily and aptly taunts himself . So cunning and so young is wonderful .
And there assume some other horrible form , Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason And draw you into madness ? Think of it . The very place puts toys of desperation , Without more motive , into every brain That looks so many fathoms to the sea And hears it roar beneath .
Villainous whore !
To bed , to bed . There 's knocking at the gate . Come , come , come , come . Give me your hand . What 's done cannot be undone . --To bed , to bed , to bed !
No , but to the gate , and there will the devil meet me like an old cuckold with horns on his head , and say , " Get you to heaven , Beatrice , get you to heaven ; here 's no place for you maids . " So deliver I up my apes and away to Saint Peter . For the heavens , he shows me where the bachelors sit , and there live we as merry as the day is long .
I know it is the sun that shines so bright .
My lord ?
I have done the deed . Didst thou not hear a noise ?
Come , I will go drink with you , but I cannot tarry dinner . I am glad to see you , by my troth , Master Shallow .
Nothing . I am not taught to make anything .
We do remember , but our argument Is all too heavy to admit much talk .
Have you your wits ? Know you what ' tis to speak ?
But are you sure That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely ?
He 's coming , madam ; but in very strange manner . He is sure possessed , madam .
Who then shall blame His pestered senses to recoil and start , When all that is within him does condemn Itself for being there ?
thy boots . We 'll ride all night . --O sweet Pistol ! --Away , Bardolph !
Either to die the death or to abjure Forever the society of men . Therefore , fair Hermia , question your desires . Know of your youth . Examine well your blood -- Whether , if you yield not to your father 's choice , You can endure the livery of a nun , For aye to be in shady cloister mewed , To live a barren sister all your life , Chanting faint hymns to the cold , fruitless moon . Thrice - blessed they that master so their blood To undergo such maiden pilgrimage . But earthlier happy is the rose distilled Than that which , withering on the virgin thorn , Grows , lives , and dies in single blessedness .
This is some monster of the isle with four legs who hath got , as I take it , an ague . Where the devil should he learn our language ? I will give him some relief if it be but for that . If I can recover him and keep him tame and get to Naples with him , he 's a present for any emperor that ever trod on neat 's leather .
How say 'st thou that Macduff denies his person At our great bidding ?
But we both obey And here give up ourselves , in the full bent , To lay our service freely at your feet To be commanded .
I know not , Menas , How lesser enmities may give way to greater . Were ' t not that we stand up against them all , ' Twere pregnant they should square between themselves , For they have entertained cause enough To draw their swords . But how the fear of us May cement their divisions and bind up The petty difference , we yet not know . Be ' t as our gods will have ' t . It only stands Our lives upon to use our strongest hands . Come , Menas .
A sail , a sail , a sail !
He smiled and said " The better for our purpose . "
In every good thing .
" I may command where I adore , But silence , like a Lucrece knife , With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore ; M. O.A. I. doth sway my life . "
Woe , woe for England ! Not a whit for me , For I , too fond , might have prevented this . Stanley did dream the boar did raze his helm , And I did scorn it and disdain to fly . Three times today my foot - cloth horse did stumble , And started when he looked upon the Tower , As loath to bear me to the slaughterhouse . O , now I need the priest that spake to me !
For shame , you generals ! What do you mean ? Love , and be friends as two such men should be . For I have seen more years , I 'm sure , than ye .
And why not the swift foot of time ? Had not that been as proper ?
You look wearily .
Consent to pay thee that I never had?- - Arrest me , foolish fellow , if thou dar'st .
O wonderful son that can so 'stonish a mother ! But is there no sequel at the heels of this mother 's admiration ? Impart .
Thou whoreson , senseless villain .
Oh , full of scorpions is my mind , dear wife ! Thou know 'st that Banquo , and his Fleance , lives .
He is ; and see , he brings the mayor along .
He speaks home , madam . You may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar .
I think there 's no man speaks better Welsh . I 'll to dinner .
Go then and muster men , but leave behind Your son George Stanley . Look your heart be firm . Or else his head 's assurance is but frail .
What means your grace ?
See now whether pure fear and entire cowardice doth not make thee wrong this virtuous gentlewoman to close with us . Is she of the wicked , is thine hostess here of the wicked , or is thy boy of the wicked , or honest Bardolph , whose zeal burns in his nose , of the wicked ?
With drink , sir ?
You ! Did you ?
If my heart 's dear love --
There 's neither honesty , manhood , nor good fellowship in thee , nor thou cam 'st not of the blood royal , if thou darest not stand for ten shillings .
Nobody come ? Then shall I bleed to death .
Ay , sir , we did sleep day out of countenance and made the night light with drinking .
He is at hand , and Pindarus is come To do you salutation from his master .
Yes , by Saint Anne , do I. A good matter , surely . Comes there any more of it ?
Be it so , Lysander . Find you out a bed , For I upon this bank will rest my head .
Ah , but I think him better than I say , And yet would herein others ' eyes were worse . Far from her nest the lapwing cries away . My heart prays for him , though my tongue do curse .
Why , I will fight with him upon this theme Until my eyelids will no longer wag .
Fie , what a question 's that If thou wert near a lewd interpreter ! But come , I 'll tell thee all my whole device When I am in my coach , which stays for us At the park gate . And therefore haste away , For we must measure twenty miles today .
You are too shallow , Hastings , much too shallow To sound the bottom of the after - times .
A whoreson , beetle - headed , flap - eared knave ! -- Come , Kate , sit down . I know you have a stomach . Will you give thanks , sweet Kate , or else shall I?- - What 's this ? Mutton ?
I care not .
Follow , I pray you .
Then he is dead ?
Who , Hero ?
A right fair mark , fair coz , is soonest hit .
Humh !
I am glad to see you mad .
What a pied ninny 's this ! --Thou scurvy patch ! -- I do beseech thy greatness , give him blows And take his bottle from him . When that 's gone , He shall drink naught but brine , for I 'll not show him Where the quick freshes are .
It 's suppertime , my lord . It 's nine o'clock .
Child Roland to the dark tower came , His word was still " Fie , foh , and fum , I smell the blood of a British man . "
Methinks his words do from such passion fly , That he believes himself . So do not I. Prove true , imagination , oh , prove true , That I , dear brother , be now ta'en for you !
What 's she ?
I would , that I might thank you as you call me .
The duke my father loved his father dearly .
Again !
Would you not have me honest ?
I often came where I did hear of her , but cannot find her .
The heavens thee guard and keep , most royal imp of fame !
Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband ? Ah , poor my lord , what tongue shall smooth thy name , When I , thy three hours ' wife , have mangled it ? But wherefore , villain , didst thou kill my cousin ? That villain cousin would have killed my husband . Back , foolish tears , back to your native spring . Your tributary drops belong to woe , Which you , mistaking , offer up to joy . My husband lives , that Tybalt would have slain , And Tybalt 's dead , that would have slain my husband . All this is comfort . Wherefore weep I then ? Some word there was , worser than Tybalt 's death , That murdered me . I would forget it fain , But oh , it presses to my memory , Like damned guilty deeds to sinners ' minds . " Tybalt is dead , and Romeo banished . "
O , break , my hear , poor bankrupt , break at once ! To prison , eyes , ne'er look on liberty . Vile earth , to earth resign . End motion here , And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier .
Why , all these should be in the lanthorn , for all these are in the moon . --But silence ! Here comes Thisbe .
But died thy sister of her love , my boy ?
Well , in her person I say I will not have you .
For my part , I care not . I say little , but when time shall serve , there shall be smiles ; but that shall be as it may . I dare not fight , but I will wink and hold out mine iron . It is a simple one , but what though ? It will toast cheese , and it will endure cold as another man 's sword will , and there 's an end .
O my most worshipful lord , an ' t please your Grace , I am a poor widow of Eastcheap , and he is arrested at my suit .
Give me the ring of mine you had at dinner Or , for my diamond , the chain you promised , And I 'll be gone , sir , and not trouble you .
I am a rogue if I were not at half - sword with a dozen of them two hours together . I have 'scaped by miracle . I am eight times thrust through the doublet , four through the hose , my buckler cut through and through , my sword hacked like a handsaw . Ecce signum ! I never dealt better since I was a man . All would not do . A plague of all cowards ! Let them speak . If they speak more or less than truth , they are villains , and the sons of darkness .
My lord .
How like you the young German , the Duke of Saxony 's nephew ?
Ay , marry , are they , sir .
I cannot be so answer 'd .
The Prince of Wales ? Where is he ? Let me see him . He is not here .
Instance , briefly . Come , instance .
And come yourselves , and bring Messala with you , Immediately to us .
Silence bestows that virtue on it , madam .
Be pleased to tell us -- For this is from the present -- how you take The offers we have sent you .
Irreparable is the loss , and patience Says it is past her cure .
Why should she write to Edmund ? Might not you Transport her purposes by word ? Belike Some things --I know not what . I 'll love thee much . Let me unseal the letter .
Room , ho ! Tell Antony Brutus is ta'en .
Come on . In this there can be no dismay . My ships come home a month before the day .
Speak yet . How grew your quarrel ?
Why , ' tis a boisterous and a cruel style , A style for challengers . Why , she defies me Like Turk to Christian . Women 's gentle brain Could not drop forth such giant - rude invention , Such Ethiop words , blacker in their effect Than in their countenance . Will you hear the letter ?
What less than doomsday is the Prince 's doom ?
' Tis poor mad Tom .
It is " Adieu , adieu . Remember me . " I have sworn ' t .
Belike some noble gentleman that means , Traveling some journey , to repose him here .
And I will take it as a sweet disgrace And make thee rich for doing me such wrong .
Here is the scroll of every man 's name which is thought fit , through all Athens , to play in our interlude before the duke and the duchess , on his wedding day at night .
Good my lord , vouchsafe me a word with you .
What , Octavia ?
Herein I see thou lov 'st me not with the full weight that I love thee . If my uncle , thy banished father , had banished thy uncle , the duke my father , so thou hadst been still with me , I could have taught my love to take thy father for mine . So wouldst thou , if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously tempered as mine is to thee .
Wilt thou set thy foot o ' my neck ?
Be not a niggard of your speech . How goes ' t ?
I am almost afraid to stand alone Here in the churchyard . Yet I will adventure .
Ah , Juliet , if the measure of thy joy Be heaped like mine , and that thy skill be more To blazon it , then sweeten with thy breath This neighbor air , and let rich music 's tongue Unfold the imagined happiness that both Receive in either by this dear encounter .
How now , my lord ! Will the king hear this piece of work ?
Lysander 's love , that would not let him bide , Fair Helena , who more engilds the night Than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light . Why seek 'st thou me ? Could not this make thee know The hate I bear thee made me leave thee so ?
Well , sir , my mistress is the sweetest lady . --Lord , Lord ! when ' twas a little prating thing . --Oh , there is a nobleman in town , one Paris , that would fain lay knife aboard , but she , good soul , had as lief see a toad , a very toad , as see him . I anger her sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer man . But , I 'll warrant you , when I say so , she looks as pale as any clout in the versal world . Doth not rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter ?
Farewell , master ! Farewell , farewell .
Fair encounter Of two most rare affections ! Heavens rain grace On that which breeds between ' em !
Those that Macbeth hath slain .
Will you two help to hasten them ?
Signior Petruchio , fie , you are to blame . Come , mistress Kate , I 'll bear you company .
Thou detestable maw , thou womb of death , Gorged with the dearest morsel of the earth , Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open , And in despite I 'll cram thee with more food !
No , sir .
So haply are they friends to Antony .
What harmony is this ? My good friends , hark !
Stand close and list him .
She should have died hereafter . There would have been a time for such a word . Tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , Creeps in this petty pace from day to day To the last syllable of recorded time , And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death . Out , out , brief candle ! Life 's but a walking shadow , a poor player That struts and frets his hour upon the stage And then is heard no more . It is a tale Told by an idiot , full of sound and fury , Signifying nothing .
Go , bind this man , for he is frantic too .
I humbly do desire your grace of pardon . I must away this night toward Padua , And it is meet I presently set forth .
Thou pray 'st not well . I prithee , take thy fingers from my throat , For though I am not splenitive and rash , Yet have I something in me dangerous , Which let thy wisdom fear . Hold off thy hand .
I pray you sir , go forth And give us truth who ' tis that is arrived .
Madam ?
I would it were otherwise . I would my means were greater and my waist slender .
Good Enobarbus , ' tis a worthy deed , And shall become you well , to entreat your captain To soft and gentle speech .
And for whose death we in the world 's wide mouth Live scandalized and foully spoken of .
Let us hear , sweet Bottom .
Very well , my lord . Your grace hath laid the odds o ' th ' weaker side .
Then westward ho ! Grace and good disposition attend your ladyship ! You 'll nothing , madam , to my lord by me ?
Come , go . I will fall prostrate at his feet And never rise until my tears and prayers Have won his grace to come in person hither And take perforce my husband from the Abbess .
Where is he ?
I gave you all --
You know that I held Epicurus strong And his opinion . Now I change my mind , And partly credit things that do presage . Coming from Sardis , on our former ensign Two mighty eagles fell , and there they perched , Gorging and feeding from our soldiers ' hands , Who to Philippi here consorted us . This morning are they fled away and gone , And in their steads do ravens , crows , and kites Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us As we were sickly prey . Their shadows seem A canopy most fatal , under which Our army lies , ready to give up the ghost .
Follow her close . Give her good watch , I pray you .
Now , by Apollo --
John Duke of Norfolk , Walter , Lord Ferrers , Sir Robert Brakenbury , and Sir William Brandon .
Thou liest . Thou art not colted ; thou art uncolted .
Go call him hither .
Confess , confess , hath he not hit you here ?
Never hung poison on a fouler toad . Out of my sight ! Thou dost infect mine eyes .
This is old . What is the success ?
O Lord !
Sixteen at least , my lord .
Oh , this is the poison of deep grief . It springs All from her father 's death , and now behold ! O Gertrude , Gertrude , When sorrows come , they come not single spies But in battalions . First , her father slain . Next , your son gone , and he most violent author Of his own just remove . The people muddied , Thick , and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers For good Polonius ' death , and we have done but greenly In hugger-mugger to inter him . Poor Ophelia Divided from herself and her fair judgment , Without the which we are pictures , or mere beasts . Last -- and as much containing as all these -- Her brother is in secret come from France , Feeds on his wonder , keeps himself in clouds , And wants not buzzers to infect his ear With pestilent speeches of his father 's death , Wherein necessity , of matter beggared , Will nothing stick our person to arraign In ear and ear . O my dear Gertrude , this , Like to a murdering piece , in many places Gives me superfluous death .
It shall do well . But yet do I believe The origin and commencement of his grief Sprung from neglected love . --How now , Ophelia ? You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said .
I know her father , though I know not her , And he knew my deceased father well . I will not sleep , Hortensio , till I see her , And therefore let me be thus bold with you To give you over at this first encounter , Unless you will accompany me thither .
Then thus she says : your behavior hath struck her into amazement and admiration .
A very fine one . Oh , how he loves Caesar !
Some devils ask but the parings of one 's nail , a rush , a hair , a drop of blood , a pin , a nut , a cherrystone ; but she , more covetous , would have a chain . Master , be wise . An if you give it her , the devil will shake her chain and fright us with it .
How is this derived ? Saw you the field ? Came you from Shrewsbury ?
Come , come , you paraquito , answer me Directly unto this question that I ask . In faith , I 'll break thy little finger , Harry , An if thou wilt not tell me all things true .
I almost die for food , and let me have it .
Indeed , he is so . I repent me much That so I harried him . Why , methinks , by him , This creature 's no such thing .
Doth thy other mouth call me ? Mercy , mercy ! This is a devil , and no monster . I will leave him . I have no long spoon .
Nay , if you strive --
Taste your legs , sir . Put them to motion .
List , list !
Patience , I pray you ! ' Twas a fault unwilling .
My lord , for aught I know .
Avaunt , and quit my sight ! Let the earth hide thee . Thy bones are marrowless , thy blood is cold . Thou hast no speculation in those eyes Which thou dost glare with !
By Him that raised me to this careful height From that contented hap which I enjoyed , I never did incense his majesty Against the duke of Clarence , but have been An earnest advocate to plead for him . My lord , you do me shameful injury Falsely to draw me in these vile suspects .
We 'll fight with him tonight .
Ay , you have been a mouse - hunt in your time , But I will watch you from such watching now .
Alas , I sent you money to redeem you By Dromio here , who came in haste for it .
You will be whipped .
Then I would he were here alone ; so should he be sure to be ransomed , and a many poor men 's lives saved .
The news I have to tell your Majesty Is that by sudden floods and fall of waters Buckingham 's army is dispersed and scattered , And he himself wandered away alone , No man knows whither .
Courteous lord , one word . Sir , you and I must part , but that 's not it . Sir , you and I have loved , but there 's not it , That you know well . Something it is I would -- Oh , my oblivion is a very Antony , And I am all forgotten .
You say you are a better soldier . Let it appear so . Make your vaunting true , And it shall please me well . For mine own part , I shall be glad to learn of noble men .
Come , let 's away . --My love , give me thy lips . Look to my chattels and my movables . Let senses rule . The word is " Pitch and pay . " Trust none , for oaths are straws , men 's faiths are wafer - cakes , And Holdfast is the only dog , my duck . Therefore , caveto be thy counselor . Go , clear thy crystals . --Yoke - fellows in arms , Let us to France , like horse - leeches , my boys , To suck , to suck , the very blood to suck .
Unfold it .
Her boat hath a leak , And she must not speak Why she dares not come over to thee .
My lord --
Cousin , you apprehend passing shrewdly .
Where is thy leather apron and thy rule ? What dost thou with thy best apparel on ? --You , sir , what trade are you ?
Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie ?
What , Lucius , ho ! -- I cannot by the progress of the stars Give guess how near to day . --Lucius , I say ! -- I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly . -- When , Lucius , when ? Awake , I say ! What , Lucius !
Why are you drawn ? Wherefore this ghastly looking ?
Oh , pardon me , ' twill do me good to walk .
You are keen , my lord , you are keen .
Yes , that he did , and said they were devils incarnate .
Here on this grass plot , in this very place , To come and sport . Her peacocks fly amain . Approach , rich Ceres , her to entertain .
No , no , forsooth , I dare not for my life .
Come , come . When saw you my father last ?
What , wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice ?
True , madam . And , to comfort you with chance , Assure yourself , after our ship did split , When you and those poor number saved with you Hung on our driving boat , I saw your brother , Most provident in peril , bind himself , Courage and hope both teaching him the practice , To a strong mast that lived upon the sea , Where , like Arion on the dolphin 's back , I saw him hold acquaintance with the waves So long as I could see .
Gloucester , I live To thank thee for the love thou showed 'st the king , And to revenge thine eyes . --Come hither , friend . Tell me what more thou know'st .
Thoughts black , hands apt , drugs fit , and time agreeing , Confederate season , else no creature seeing , Thou mixture rank , of midnight weeds collected , With Hecate 's ban thrice blasted , thrice infected , Thy natural magic and dire property On wholesome life usurp immediately .
Most meet That first we come to words , and therefore have we Our written purposes before us sent , Which , if thou hast considered , let us know If ' twill tie up thy discontented sword And carry back to Sicily much tall youth That else must perish here .
Master , is this Mistress Satan ?
She will not .
Of a strange nature is the suit you follow , Yet in such rule that the Venetian law Cannot impugn you as you do proceed . -- You stand within his danger , do you not ?
Go fetch it , sister .
The king 's a bawcock , and a heart of gold , A lad of life , an imp of fame , Of parents good , of fist most valiant . I kiss his dirty shoe , and from heartstring I love the lovely bully . What is thy name ?
Be comforted , good madam . The great rage , You see , is killed in him . And yet it is danger To make him even o'er the time he has lost . Desire him to go in . Trouble him no more Till further settling .
I did , my lord . And I have reason for it . Signor Antonio Commends him to you .
Seeking the bubble reputation Even in the cannon 's mouth . And then the justice , In fair round belly with good capon lined , With eyes severe and beard of formal cut , Full of wise saws and modern instances ; And so he plays his part . The sixth age shifts Into the lean and slippered pantaloon With spectacles on nose and pouch on side , His youthful hose , well saved , a world too wide For his shrunk shank , and his big manly voice , Turning again toward childish treble , pipes And whistles in his sound . Last scene of all , That ends this strange eventful history , Is second childishness and mere oblivion , Sans teeth , sans eyes , sans taste , sans everything .
You are too blunt . Go to it orderly .
Is ' t possible ?
Most certain , sir .
I will not fail you .
All is lost ! This foul Egyptian hath betrayed me . My fleet hath yielded to the foe , and yonder They cast their caps up and carouse together Like friends long lost . Triple - turned whore ! ' Tis thou Hast sold me to this novice , and my heart Makes only wars on thee . Bid them all fly , For when I am revenged upon my charm , I have done all . Bid them all fly . Begone !
I 'll be with thee betimes .
Thy face is mine , and thou hast slandered it .
Madam , you have bereft me of all words . Only my blood speaks to you in my veins . And there is such confusion in my powers As after some oration fairly spoke By a beloved prince there doth appear Among the buzzing pleased multitude , Where every something , being blent together , Turns to a wild of nothing , save of joy , Expressed and not expressed . But when this ring Parts from this finger , then parts life from hence . O , then be bold to say Bassanio 's dead !
What , art thou waking ?
I think I hear them . --Stand , ho ! Who 's there ?
And his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch of holy bread .
Villain , I say , knock me at this gate And rap me well , or I 'll knock your knave 's pate .
Signior Lodovico ?
Out o ' tune , sir . You lie . Art any more than a steward ? Dost thou think , because thou art virtuous , there shall be no more cakes and ale ?
Tut , never fear me . I am as vigilant as a cat to steal cream .
He cannot be heard of . Out of doubt he is transported .
Which do not be entreated to , but weigh What it is worth embraced .
Caesar , I bring thee word Menecrates and Menas , famous pirates , Make the sea serve them , which they ear and wound With keels of every kind . Many hot inroads They make in Italy -- the borders maritime Lack blood to think on ' t -- and flush youth revolt . No vessel can peep forth , but ' tis as soon Taken as seen , for Pompey 's name strikes more Than could his war resisted .
You spend your passion on a misprised mood . I am not guilty of Lysander 's blood . Nor is he dead , for aught that I can tell .
Dear my lord , if you in your own proof Have vanquished the resistance of her youth And made defeat of her virginity --
Fair sir , and you , my merry mistress , That with your strange encounter much amazed me , My name is called Vincentio , my dwelling Pisa , And bound I am to Padua , there to visit A son of mine which long I have not seen .
What hempen homespuns have we swaggering here , So near the cradle of the fairy queen ? What , a play toward ? I 'll be an auditor . An actor too , perhaps , if I see cause .
We hope to make the sender blush at it . Therefore , my lords , omit no happy hour That may give furth'rance to our expedition ; For we have now no thought in us but France , Save those to God , that run before our business . Therefore let our proportions for these wars Be soon collected , and all things thought upon That may with reasonable swiftness add More feathers to our wings . For , God before , We 'll chide this Dauphin at his father 's door . Therefore let every man now task his thought , That this fair action may on foot be brought .
In most profound earnest , and , I 'll warrant you , for the love of Beatrice .
Why , now thou hast unwished five thousand men , Which likes me better than to wish us one . --You know your places . God be with you all . Tucket
Swart like my shoe , but her face nothing like so clean kept . For why ? She sweats . A man may go overshoes in the grime of it .
He is a sick man that would speak with you .
Rosalind is your love 's name ?
He is not yet arrived . Nor know I aught But that he 's well and will be shortly here .
I think it be , but we have no great cause to desire the approach of day .
Here 's my glove . Give me another of thine .
Hence ! Wilt thou lift up Olympus ?
O , would the quarrel lay upon our heads , And that no man might draw short breath today But I and Harry Monmouth ! Tell me , tell me , How showed his tasking ? Seemed it in contempt ?
Draw , if you be men . --Gregory , remember thy washing blow .
Then think you right : I am not what I am .
Stand to ' t .
Stand from the hearse . Stand from the body .
Oh , I am slain ! --My lord , you have one eye left To see some mischief on him . Oh !
If it might please ye --
Cleopatra , know We will extenuate rather than enforce . If you apply yourself to our intents , Which towards you are most gentle , you shall find A benefit in this change , but if you seek To lay on me a cruelty by taking Antony 's course , you shall bereave yourself Of my good purposes and put your children To that destruction which I 'll guard them from If thereon you rely . I 'll take my leave .
If thou dost I shall never love thee after . Why , thou silly gentleman !
My hour is almost come When I to sulfurous and tormenting flames Must render up myself .
Belike then my appetite was not princely got , for , by my troth , I do now remember the poor creature small beer . But indeed these humble considerations make me out of love with my greatness . What a disgrace is it to me to remember thy name , or to know thy face tomorrow , or to take note how many pair of silk stockings thou hast -- with these , and those that were thy peach-colored ones -- or to bear the inventory of thy shirts , as , one for superfluity and another for use . But that the tennis - court keeper knows better than I , for it is a low ebb of linen with thee when thou keepest not racket there , as thou hast not done a great while , because the rest of the low countries have made a shift to eat up thy holland ; and God knows whether those that bawl out the ruins of thy linen shall inherit His kingdom ; but the midwives say the children are not in the fault , whereupon the world increases and kindreds are mightily strengthened .
Come , my lord , and in our flight Tell me how it came this night That I sleeping here was found With these mortals on the ground .
I am not sorry neither . I 'd have thee live , For in my sense ' tis happiness to die .
But , my good lord , I wot not by what power -- But by some power it is -- my love to Hermia , Melted as the snow , seems to me now As the remembrance of an idle gaud Which in my childhood I did dote upon . And all the faith , the virtue of my heart , The object and the pleasure of mine eye , Is only Helena . To her , my lord , Was I betrothed ere I saw Hermia . But like in sickness did I loathe this food . But as in health , come to my natural taste , Now I do wish it , love it , long for it , And will for evermore be true to it .
Prates too . --What say you , James Soundpost ?
If , Duke of Burgundy , you would the peace , Whose want gives growth to th ' imperfections Which you have cited , you must buy that peace With full accord to all our just demands , Whose tenors and particular effects You have , enscheduled briefly , in your hands .
I say , tonight . No more .
I held the sword and he did run on it .
What say you ?
Why , that same pale hard-hearted wench , that Rosaline , Torments him so , that he will sure run mad .
No harm . I have done nothing but in care of thee , Of thee , my dear one -- thee my daughter , who Art ignorant of what thou art , naught knowing Of whence I am , nor that I am more better Than Prospero , master of a full poor cell And thy no greater father .
See you where Benedick hath hid himself ?
They swore that you were almost sick for me .
Wooed me to steal it , but she so loves the token That she reserves it evermore about her To kiss and talk to . I 'll have the work ta'en out And give ' t Iago . What he will do with it Heaven knows , not I. I nothing but to please his fantasy .
Sweet Phoebe , do not scorn me . Do not , Phoebe . Say that you love me not , but say not so In bitterness . The common executioner , Whose heart th ' accustomed sight of death makes hard , Falls not the axe upon the humbled neck But first begs pardon . Will you sterner be Than he that dies and lives by bloody drops ?
I thank you , madam . Give welcome to my friend . This is the man , this is Antonio , To whom I am so infinitely bound .
Himself in person there ?
Oh , who hath done this deed ?
O Jupiter , how weary are my spirits !
I say it is the moon .
Comfort , your Majesty .
Good repose the while !
Thanks , Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz . And I beseech you instantly to visit My too much changed son . Go , some of you , And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is .
I know he doth not , and do arm myself To welcome the condition of the time , Which cannot look more hideously upon me Than I have drawn it in my fantasy .
Happily he 's the second time come to them , for they say an old man is twice a child .
Farewell , great chief . Shall I strike now ?
Go , fellow , go . Return unto thy lord . Bid him not fear the separated council . His Honor and myself are at the one , And at the other is my good friend Catesby , Where nothing can proceed that toucheth us Whereof I shall not have intelligence . Tell him his fears are shallow , without instance . And for his dreams , I wonder he 's so simple To trust the mock'ry of unquiet slumbers . To fly the boar before the boar pursues Were to incense the boar to follow us And make pursuit where he did mean no chase . Go , bid thy master rise and come to me , And we will both together to the Tower , Where he shall see , the boar will use us kindly .
Nothing , unless you render her again .
As much unto my good Lord Chamberlain . Well are you welcome to the open air . How hath your lordship brooked imprisonment ?
Murder most foul , as in the best it is . But this most foul , strange and unnatural .
He did ask favor .
Were it better I should rush in thus -- But where is Kate ? Where is my love ? How does my father ? Gentles , methinks you frown . And wherefore gaze this goodly company As if they saw some wondrous monument , Some comet or unusual prodigy ?
I find thee apt , And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf , Wouldst thou not stir in this . Now , Hamlet , hear . ' Tis given out that , sleeping in my orchard , A serpent stung me . So the whole ear of Denmark Is by a forged process of my death Rankly abused . But know , thou noble youth , The serpent that did sting thy father 's life Now wears his crown .
Where is the king ?
Ay , do . Persever , counterfeit sad looks , Make mouths upon me when I turn my back , Wink each at other , hold the sweet jest up -- This sport , well carried , shall be chronicled .
Cowards die many times before their deaths . The valiant never taste of death but once . Of all the wonders that I yet have heard , It seems to me most strange that men should fear , Seeing that death , a necessary end , Will come when it will come .
And say besides that in Aleppo once , Where a malignant and a turbaned Turk Beat a Venetian and traduced the state , I took by the throat the circumcised dog , And smote him , thus .
Why , go to then . She that , so young , could give out such a seeming , To seel her father 's eyes up close as oak , He thought ' twas witchcraft . But I am much to blame . I humbly do beseech you of your pardon For too much loving you .
By the pricking of my thumbs , Something wicked this way comes . Open , locks , Whoever knocks .
But how did you desire it should be made ?
Fore God , would you would , Master Shallow .
Hum ! I guess at it .
How canst thou urge God 's dreadful law to us When thou hast broke it in such dear degree ?
By your leave , sir .
Then be ' t so , my good lord . -- How does the king ?
They that add , moreover , he 's drunk nightly in your company .
The will , the will ! We will hear Caesar 's will .
That is the very defect of the matter , sir .
Alexas did revolt and went to Jewry on Affairs of Antony , there did dissuade Great Herod to incline himself to Caesar And leave his master Antony . For this pains Caesar hath hanged him . Canidius and the rest That fell away have entertainment but No honorable trust . I have done ill , Of which I do accuse myself so sorely That I will joy no more .
He is my prisoner . If I let him go , The debt he owes will be required of me .
Thanks , sir : the like to you !
No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch . But now , Baptista , to your younger daughter . Now is the day we long have looked for . I am your neighbor , and was suitor first .
Death is my son - in - law . Death is my heir . My daughter he hath wedded . I will die , And leave him all . Life , living , all is Death 's .
As thou'rt a man , Give me the cup . Let go ! By heaven , I 'll have ' t . O God , Horatio , what a wounded name , Things standing thus unknown , shall live behind me ! If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart Absent thee from felicity a while , And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain To tell my story .
Ay , so I thought . How many , as you guess ?
I believe drink gave thee the lie last night .
And a chain , that you once wore , about his neck . Change you color ?
The ancient saying is no heresy . Hanging and wiving goes by destiny .
One , gentlewoman , that God hath made , himself to mar .
Cambio .
Ay , my lord .
They are , my lord .
He hath , my lord , but be you well assured No more than he 'll unswear .
Thou speak 'st aright . I am that merry wanderer of the night . I jest to Oberon and make him smile When I a fat and bean - fed horse beguile , Neighing in likeness of a filly foal . And sometime lurk I in a gossip 's bowl In very likeness of a roasted crab , And when she drinks , against her lips I bob And on her withered dewlap pour the ale . The wisest aunt telling the saddest tale Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me . Then slip I from her bum , down topples she , And " Tailor ! " cries , and falls into a cough , And then the whole quire hold their hips and laugh , And waxen in their mirth , and neeze , and swear A merrier hour was never wasted there . But , room , fairy ! Here comes Oberon .
Is it e' en so ? Then I defy you , stars ! Thou know 'st my lodging . Get me ink and paper , And hire post horses . I will hence tonight .
Good sir , to the purpose .
And will he not come again ? And will he not come again ? No , no , he is dead , Go to thy deathbed . He never will come again . His beard was as white as snow , All flaxen was his poll . He is gone , he is gone , And we cast away moan , God ha ' mercy on his soul . -- And of all Christian souls , I pray God . God be wi ' ye .
Hadst thou been aught but gossamer , feathers , air , So many fathom down precipitating , Thou'dst shivered like an egg . But thou dost breathe , Hast heavy substance , bleed 'st not , speak'st , art sound . Ten masts at each make not the altitude Which thou hast perpendicularly fell . Thy life 's a miracle . Speak yet again .
Lead , boy . Which way ?
Then call we this the field of Agincourt , Fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus .
Alack , our terrene moon is now eclipsed , And it portends alone the fall of Antony .
Very well .
What needs this iterance , woman ? I say thy husband .
Oh , if I wake , shall I not be distraught , Environed with all these hideous fears , And madly play with my forefather 's joints , And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud , And , in this rage , with some great kinsman 's bone , As with a club , dash out my desperate brains ? Oh , look ! Methinks I see my cousin 's ghost Seeking out Romeo , that did spit his body Upon a rapier 's point . Stay , Tybalt , stay ! Romeo , Romeo , Romeo ! Here 's drink . I drink to thee .
Give me the gown . Where is thy instrument ?
Thus , Brutus , did my master bid me kneel . Thus did Mark Antony bid me fall down , And , being prostrate , thus he bade me say : Brutus is noble , wise , valiant , and honest . Caesar was mighty , bold , royal , and loving . Say I love Brutus , and I honor him . Say I feared Caesar , honored him , and loved him .
Enough , I am engaged . I will challenge him . I will kiss your hand , and so I leave you . By this hand , Claudio shall render me a dear account . As you hear of me , so think of me . Go comfort your cousin . I must say she is dead , and so , farewell .
I am sorry , madam , I have hurt your kinsman , But , had it been the brother of my blood , I must have done no less with wit and safety . You throw a strange regard upon me , and by that I do perceive it hath offended you . Pardon me , sweet one , even for the vows We made each other but so late ago .
Here , stand behind this bulk , straight will he come . Wear thy good rapier bare , and put it home . Quick , quick ! Fear nothing . I 'll be at thy elbow . It makes us , or it mars us . Think on that , And fix most firm thy resolution .
Alas , alas ! It is not honesty in me to speak What I have seen and known . You shall observe him , And his own courses will denote him so That I may save my speech . Do but go after And mark how he continues .
Now let me see if I can conster it . Hic ibat Simois , I know you not , hic est Sigeia tellus , I trust you not , Hic steterat Priami , take heed he hear us not , regia , presume not , celsa senis , despair not .
Ah , stand by .
Thou losest labor . As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed . Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests ; I bear a charmed life , which must not yield To one of woman born .
Mistress , what cheer ?
That will I , for I must bear answer back How you excuse my brother , Rosalind .
Peace ! What noise ?
Another king ! they grow like Hydra 's heads . -- I am the Douglas , fatal to all those That wear those colors on them . What art thou That counterfeit 'st the person of a king ?
Thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture To be so taken at thy peril , Jew .
Here is the head of that ignoble traitor , The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings .
No contraries hold more antipathy Than I and such a knave .
You know not why we came to visit you --
I think th ' art mad .
Now , Hal , to the news at court . For the robbery , lad , how is that answered ?
Come , you are too severe a moraler . As the time , the place , and the condition of this country stands , I could heartily wish this had not befallen . But since it is as it is , mend it for your own good .
The rest is labor which is not used for you : I 'll be myself the harbinger and make joyful The hearing of my wife with your approach . So humbly take my leave .
An if the devil come and roar for them , I will not send them . I will after straight And tell him so , for I will ease my heart , Albeit I make a hazard of my head .
Father , and wife , and gentlemen , adieu . I will to Venice . Sunday comes apace . We will have rings , and things , and fine array , And kiss me , Kate . We will be married o ' Sunday .
Mistress Tearsheet !
No , Cassius , for the eye sees not itself But by reflection , by some other things .
That I did love the Moor to live with him , My downright violence and storm of fortunes May trumpet to the world . My heart 's subdued Even to the very quality of my lord . I saw Othello 's visage in his mind , And to his honors and his valiant parts Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate . So that , dear lords , if I be left behind A moth of peace and he go to the war , The rites for which I love him are bereft me , And I a heavy interim shall support By his dear absence . Let me go with him .
It shall be suffigance .
I do bite my thumb , sir .
What kind of help ?
Merciful heaven ! What , man ! Ne'er pull your hat upon your brows . Give sorrow words . The grief that does not speak Whispers the o'erfraught heart and bids it break .
Yea , marry , let them come before me . What is your name , friend ?
Proceed , proceed . I 'll give her .
And you , fair sister .
Hast thou forgot thyself ? Is it so long?- - Call forth the holy father .
If it proves so , then loving goes by haps ; Some Cupid kills with arrows , some with traps .
What do you mean , my lord ?
Is it so nominated in the bond ?
No more but that I know the more one sickens , the worse at ease he is , and that he that wants money , means , and content is without three good friends ; that the property of rain is to wet , and fire to burn ; that good pasture makes fat sheep ; and that a great cause of the night is lack of the sun ; that he that hath learned no wit by nature nor art may complain of good breeding or comes of a very dull kindred .
A bloody deed , and desperately dispatched . How fain , like Pilate , would I wash my hands Of this most grievous murder .
I wish your enterprise today may thrive .
Let thy tongue tang arguments of state . Put thyself into the trick of singularity . She thus advises thee that sighs for thee . Remember who commended thy yellow stockings and wished to see thee ever cross - gartered . I say , remember . Go to , thou art made , if thou desir 'st to be so ; if not , let me see thee a steward still , the fellow of servants , and not worthy to touch Fortune 's fingers . Farewell . She that would alter services with thee , The Fortunate Unhappy "
' Faith , sir , so - so .
Oh , beware , my lord , of jealousy ! It is the green-eyed monster which doth mock The meat it feeds on . That cuckold lives in bliss Who , certain of his fate , loves not his wronger , But , oh , what damned minutes tells he o'er Who dotes , yet doubts -- suspects , yet soundly loves !
Blistered be thy tongue For such a wish ! He was not born to shame . Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit , For ' tis a throne where honor may be crowned . Sole monarch of the universal earth , Oh , what a beast was I to chide at him !
My lord , will you walk ? Dinner is ready .
Thy state is the more gracious , for ' tis a vice to know him . He hath much land , and fertile . Let a beast be lord of beasts and his crib shall stand at the king 's mess . ' Tis a chough , but , as I say , spacious in the possession of dirt .
Why , he is dead . See what a ready tongue suspicion hath ! He that but fears the thing he would not know Hath , by instinct , knowledge from others ' eyes That what he feared is chanced . Yet speak , Morton . Tell thou an earl his divination lies ,
She was , good Curtis , before this frost . But thou knowest winter tames man , woman and beast , for it hath tamed my old master and my new mistress and myself , fellow Curtis .
O single - soled jest , solely singular for the singleness .
These fellows will do well , Master Shallow . --God keep you , Master Silence . I will not use many words with you . Fare you well , gentlemen both . I thank you . I must a dozen mile to - night . --Bardolph , give the soldiers coats .
They call for dates and quinces in the pastry .
That argues but the shame of your offense . A rotten case abides no handling .
God give your Graces both A happy and a joyful time of day .
My noble lords and cousins all , good morrow . I have been long a sleeper ; but I trust My absence doth neglect no great design Which by my presence might have been concluded .
But if she cannot love you , sir ?
He that has and a little tiny wit -- With heigh-ho , the wind and the rain -- Must make content with his fortunes fit , For the rain it raineth every day .
Therein do men from children nothing differ .
Dolabella !
Oh , thou wilt speak again of banishment .
Look , look , here comes my John of Lancaster .
A devil , a born devil on whose nature Nurture can never stick , on whom my pains , Humanely taken , all , all lost , quite lost . And as with age his body uglier grows , So his mind cankers . I will plague them all , Even to roaring .
As from a bear a man would run for life , So fly I from her that would be my wife .
What , wilt thou flout me thus unto my face , Being forbid ? There , take you that , sir knave .
Ha , ha , are you honest ?
If a man 's brains were in 's heels , were ' t not in danger of kibes ?
Oh , out of that " no hope " What great hope have you ! No hope that way is Another way so high a hope that even Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond , But doubt discovery there . Will you grant with me That Ferdinand is drowned ?
Bloody constraint , for if you hide the crown Even in your hearts , there will he rake for it . Therefore in fierce tempest is he coming , In thunder and in earthquake like a Jove , That , if requiring fail , he will compel , And bids you , in the bowels of the Lord , Deliver up the crown and to take mercy On the poor souls for whom this hungry war Opens his vasty jaws , and on your head Turning the widows ' tears , the orphans ' cries , The dead men 's blood , the pining maidens ' groans , For husbands , fathers , and betrothed lovers , That shall be swallowed in this controversy . This is his claim , his threat'ning , and my message -- Unless the Dauphin be in presence here , To whom expressly I bring greeting too .
No , truly , unless thou wert hard - favored , for honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar .
I shall attend you presently at your tent .
" Sweet Bassanio , my ships have all miscarried . My creditors grow cruel . My estate is very low . My bond to the Jew is forfeit . And since in paying it , it is impossible I should live , all debts are cleared between you and I if I might but see you at my death . Notwithstanding , use your pleasure . If your love do not persuade you to come , let not my letter . "
I think I am as like to ride the mare if I have any vantage of ground to get up .
I pray thee , gentle mortal , sing again . Mine ear is much enamored of thy note . So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape . And thy fair virtue 's force perforce doth move me On the first view to say , to swear , I love thee .
Ho , ho , ho ! Now the witch take me if I meant it thus ! Grace grow where those drops fall ! My hearty friends , You take me in too dolorous a sense , For I spake to you for your comfort , did desire you To burn this night with torches . Know , my hearts , I hope well of tomorrow , and will lead you Where rather I 'll expect victorious life Than death and honor . Let 's to supper , come , And drown consideration .
In faith , she 's too curst .
Now , where 's my wife ?
That were the most if he should husband you .
Pourquoi , my dear knight ?
So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to ' t .
As wit and fortune will .
And what wit could wit have to excuse that ?
More at your request than to please myself .
That " sort " was well fished for .
Who are you ? Tell me for more certainty , Albeit I 'll swear that I do know your tongue .
Name them .
Why , if thou never wast at court , thou never saw 'st good manners ; if thou never saw 'st good manners , then thy manners must be wicked , and wickedness is sin , and sin is damnation . Thou art in a parlous state , shepherd .
You will lose this wager , my lord .
I 'll write it straight . The matter 's in my head and in my heart . I will be bitter with him and passing short . Go with me , Silvius .
The gods confound thee ! Dost thou hold there still ?
Hark ! She speaks . I will set down what comes from her , to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly .
Favors ? By Jove that thunders ! What art thou , fellow ?
Ay , he .
Ay , my good lord .
Torments will ope your lips .
Sir , I shall not be slack ; in sign whereof , Please ye we may contrive this afternoon And quaff carouses to our mistress ' health And do as adversaries do in law , Strive mightily , but eat and drink as friends .
Sir , I cannot .
I crave fit disposition for my wife . Due reference of place and exhibition , With such accommodation and besort As levels with her breeding .
Our flesh and blood , my lord , is grown so vile That it doth hate what gets it .
Do not you chide . I have a thing for you .
Your Majestee ave fausse French enough to deceive de most sage demoiselle dat is en France .
Is ' t possible ?
How now , lady ?
Ha ! I like not that .
I kiss the wall 's hole , not your lips at all .
I thank you . How does lieutenant Cassio ?
Now he 'll outstare the lightning . To be furious Is to be frighted out of fear , and in that mood The dove will peck the estridge ; and I see still A diminution in our captain 's brain Restores his heart . When valor preys on reason , It eats the sword it fights with . I will seek Some way to leave him .
O fair Katherine , if you will love me soundly with your French heart , I will be glad to hear you confess it brokenly with your English tongue . Do you like me , Kate ?
Why , so . Now have I done a good day 's work . You peers , continue this united league . I every day expect an embassage From my Redeemer to redeem me hence , And more in peace my soul shall part to heaven Since I have made my friends at peace on earth Rivers and Hastings , take each other 's hand . Dissemble not your hatred . Swear your love .
We all that are engaged to this loss Knew that we ventured on such dangerous seas That if we wrought out life , ' twas ten to one ; And yet we ventured , for the gain proposed Choked the respect of likely peril feared ;
To us no more , nay , not so much , Lord Bardolph , For his divisions , as the times do brawl , Are in three heads : one power against the French , And one against Glendower ; perforce a third Must take up us . So is the unfirm King In three divided , and his coffers sound With hollow poverty and emptiness .
He is , my lord , an hour ago .
Ay , madam .
O villain , thou hast stolen both mine office and my name ! The one ne'er got me credit , the other mickle blame . If thou hadst been Dromio today in my place , Thou wouldst have changed thy face for a name , or thy name for an ass .
No.
But being charged , we will be still by land -- Which , as I take ' t , we shall , for his best force Is forth to man his galleys . To the vales , And hold our best advantage .
Demand .
Ha , no , no , faith , thou sing 'st well enough for a shift .
Why , thy godhead laid apart , Warr 'st thou with a woman 's heart ? Did you ever hear such railing ? Whiles the eye of man did woo me , That could do no vengeance to me . Meaning me a beast .
Sweet lady , ho , ho .
Your will ?
I do beseech you , sir , have patience . Your looks are pale and wild , and do import Some misadventure .
Here comes the lady . Oh , so light a foot Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint . A lover may bestride the gossamers That idles in the wanton summer air , And yet not fall . So light is vanity .
O , fellow , come , the song we had last night . -- Mark it , Cesario , it is old and plain ; The spinsters and the knitters in the sun And the free maids that weave their thread with bones Do use to chant it . It is silly sooth , And dallies with the innocence of love , Like the old age .
Nay , I know not . You have heard of the news abroad?- - I mean the whispered ones , for they are yet but ear - kissing arguments .
Just , just ; and the men do sympathize with the mastiffs in robustious and rough coming on , leaving their wits with their wives . And then give them great meals of beef and iron and steel , they will eat like wolves and fight like devils .
How now , sir ? is your merry humor altered ? As you love strokes , so jest with me again . You know no Centaur ? You received no gold ? Your mistress sent to have me home to dinner ? My house was at the Phoenix ? Wast thou mad , That thus so madly thou didst answer me ?
Yet you have all the vantage of her wrong . I was too hot to do somebody good That is too cold in thinking of it now . Marry , as for Clarence , he is well repaid ; He is franked up to fatting for his pains . God pardon them that are the cause thereof .
Good my lord , be quiet .
Do you know me , my lord ?
A gentle scroll . Fair lady , by your leave , I come by note to give and to receive . Like one of two contending in a prize That thinks he hath done well in people 's eyes , Hearing applause and universal shout , Giddy in spirit , still gazing in a doubt Whether these pearls of praise be his or no -- So , thrice fair lady , stand I even so , As doubtful whether what I see be true Until confirmed , signed , ratified by you .
Farewell .
Shall I not have barely my principal ?
Banquo and Macbeth , all hail !
There let him sink , and be the seas on him ! White - livered runagate , what doth he there ?
What 's the matter , lieutenant ?
Why , saw you anything more wonderful ?
Give me no help in lamentation . I am not barren to bring forth complaints . All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes , That I , being governed by the watery moon , May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world . Ah , for my husband , for my dear lord Edward !
Even for that I thank you . Therefore I pray you lead me to the caskets To try my fortune . By this scimitar That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince That won three fields of Sultan Solyman , I would o'erstare the sternest eyes that look , Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth , Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she - bear , Yea , mock the lion when he roars for prey , To win the lady . But , alas the while ! If Hercules and Lychas play at dice Which is the better man , the greater throw May turn by fortune from the weaker hand . So is Alcides beaten by his page , And so may I , blind fortune leading me , Miss that which one unworthier may attain And die with grieving .
Is it not Hero ? Who can blot that name With any just reproach ?
But oh , how vile an idol proves this god ! Thou hast , Sebastian , done good feature shame . In nature there 's no blemish but the mind . None can be called deformed but the unkind . Virtue is beauty , but the beauteous evil Are empty trunks o'erflourished by the devil .
I thank your lordship , you have got me one . My eyes , my lord , can look as swift as yours . You saw the mistress , I beheld the maid . You loved , I loved . For intermission No more pertains to me , my lord , than you . Your fortune stood upon the casket there , And so did mine too , as the matter falls . For wooing here until I sweat again , And swearing till my very roof was dry With oaths of love , at last -- if promise last -- I got a promise of this fair one here To have her love , provided that your fortune Achieved her mistress .
I am here with thee and thy goats , as the most capricious poet , honest Ovid , was among the Goths .
Now is the mural down between the two neighbors .
Why , the honest men .
Trumpets sound . The dumb show begins Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly , the Queen embracing him and he her . She kneels and makes show of protestation unto him . He takes her up and declines his head upon her neck , lays him down upon a bank of flowers . She , seeing him asleep , leaves him . Anon comes in a fellow , takes off his crown , kisses it , pours poison in the King 's ears , and exits . The Queen returns , finds the King dead , and makes passionate action . The Poisoner , with some two or three Mutes , comes in again , seeming to lament with her . The dead body is carried away . The Poisoner woos the Queen with gifts . She seems loath and unwilling awhile , but in the end accepts his love
One word more , honest neighbors . I pray you watch about Signior Leonato 's door , for the wedding being there tomorrow , there is a great coil tonight . Adieu , be vigitant , I beseech you .
I say ' tis copper . Darest thou be as good as thy word now ?
If he come not , then the play is marred . It goes not forward . Doth it ?
Calphurnia !
There is some strange misprision in the princes .
Wherefore was that cry ?
Is this a prologue or the posy of a ring ?
Are you drawn forth among a world of men To slay the innocent ? What is my offense ? Where is the evidence that doth accuse me ? What lawful quest have given their verdict up Unto the frowning judge ? Or who pronounced The bitter sentence of poor Clarence ' death Before I be convict by course of law ? To threaten me with death is most unlawful . I charge you , as you hope to have redemption , By Christ 's dear blood shed for our grievous sins , That you depart , and lay no hands on me . The deed you undertake is damnable .
As they pass by , pluck Casca by the sleeve , And he will , after his sour fashion , tell you What hath proceeded worthy note today .
You must away tonight .
The savage bull may , but if ever the sensible Benedick bear it , pluck off the bull 's horns and set them in my forehead , and let me be vilely painted , and in such great letters as they write " Here is good horse to hire " let them signify under my sign " Here you may see Benedick the married man . "
O hell , what have we here ? A carrion death , within whose empty eye There is a written scroll . I 'll read the writing . " All that glisters is not gold -- Often have you heard that told . Many a man his life hath sold But my outside to behold . Gilded tombs do worms enfold . Had you been as wise as bold , Young in limbs , in judgment old , Your answer had not been inscrolled . Fare you well . Your suit is cold -- Cold , indeed , and labor lost . " Then , farewell , heat , and welcome , frost ! Portia , adieu . I have too grieved a heart To take a tedious leave . Thus losers part .
An if he be not fought withal , my lord , Let us not live in France . Let us quit all And give our vineyards to a barbarous people .
Hear me , for I will speak . Must I give way and room to your rash choler ? Shall I be frighted when a madman stares ?
Decius , well urged . I think it is not meet Mark Antony , so well beloved of Caesar , Should outlive Caesar . We shall find of him A shrewd contriver . And , you know , his means , If he improve them , may well stretch so far As to annoy us all ; which to prevent , Let Antony and Caesar fall together .
Wherefore to Dover ? Wast thou not charged at peril --
I 'll follow you , good Master Robert Shallow .
A crown 's worth of good interpretation . There ' tis , boy .
He takes her by the palm . Ay , well said , whisper ! With as little a web as this will I ensnare as great a fly as Cassio . Ay , smile upon her , do , I will gyve thee in thine own courtship . You say true , ' Tis so , indeed .
Tybalt , the reason that I have to love thee Doth much excuse the appertaining rage To such a greeting . Villain am I none . Therefore , farewell . I see thou know 'st me not .
Look , here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers .
My liege , this was my glove ; here is the fellow of it . And he that I gave it to in change promised to wear it in his cap . I promised to strike him if he did . I met this man with my glove in his cap , and I have been as good as my word .
Now is that noble vessel full of grief , That it runs over even at his eyes .
What Conrade !
If he should do so , He leaves his back unarmed , the French and Welsh Baying him at the heels . Never fear that .
Oh , then , I see Queen Mab hath been with you .
Come , you are so full of cony-catching !
And that Count Claudio did mean upon his words to disgrace Hero before the whole assembly , and not marry her .
While I go to the goldsmith 's house , go thou And buy a rope 's end . That will I bestow Among my wife and her confederates For locking me out of my doors by day . But soft . I see the goldsmith . Get thee gone . Buy thou a rope , and bring it home to me .
Thou'rt a scholar . Let us therefore eat and drink . Marian , I say ! A stoup of wine !
No.
What , is he arrested ? Tell me at whose suit .
And you shall be satisfied .
Faith , Sir John , ' tis more than time that I were there and you too , but my powers are there already . The King , I can tell you , looks for us all . We must away all night .
Your means are very slender , and your waste is great .
Neither his daughter , if we judge by manners , But yet indeed the smaller is his daughter The other is daughter to the banished duke , And here detained by her usurping uncle To keep his daughter company , whose loves Are dearer than the natural bond of sisters . But I can tell you that of late this duke Hath ta'en displeasure ' gainst his gentle niece , Grounded upon no other argument But that the people praise her for her virtues And pity her for her good father 's sake ; And , on my life , his malice ' gainst the lady Will suddenly break forth . Sir , fare you well . Hereafter , in a better world than this , I shall desire more love and knowledge of you .
Good morrow , good my lord .
And thou unfit for any place but hell .
Good faith , good faith , the saying did not hold In him that did object the same to thee ! He was the wretched 'st thing when he was young , So long a - growing and so leisurely , That if this rule were true , he should be gracious .
Where 's Antony ?
Is thy name Mouldy ?
Gallop apace , you fiery - footed steeds , Toward Phoebus ' lodging . Such a wagoner As Phaeton would whip you to the west And bring in cloudy night immediately . Spread thy close curtain , love - performing night , That runaways ' eyes may wink , and Romeo Leap to these arms , untalked of and unseen . Lovers can see to do their amorous rites By their own beauties , or , if love be blind , It best agrees with night . Come , civil night , Thou sober - suited matron , all in black , And learn me how to lose a winning match Played for a pair of stainless maidenhoods . Hood my unmanned blood bating in my cheeks , With thy black mantle , till strange love , grow bold , Think true love acted simple modesty . Come , night . Come , Romeo . Come , thou day in night , For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night Whiter than new snow upon a raven 's back . Come , gentle night , come , loving , black - browed night , Give me my Romeo . And when I shall die , Take him and cut him out in little stars , And he will make the face of heaven so fine That all the world will be in love with night And pay no worship to the garish sun . Oh , I have bought the mansion of a love , But not possessed it , and though I am sold , Not yet enjoyed . So tedious is this day As is the night before some festival To an impatient child that hath new robes And may not wear them .
Not so . But I answer you right painted cloth , from whence you have studied your questions .
More matter , with less art .
Be collected . No more amazement . Tell your piteous heart There 's no harm done .
This is strange . Your father 's in some passion That works him strongly .
The king hath heard them , to the which as yet There is no answer made .
Dost thou hear , Hal ? Never call a true piece of gold a counterfeit . Thou art essentially made , without seeming so .
Good countrymen , let me depart alone . And , for my sake , stay here with Antony . Do grace to Caesar 's corpse , and grace his speech Tending to Caesar 's glories , which Mark Antony By our permission is allowed to make . I do entreat you , not a man depart , Save I alone , till Antony have spoke .
No , my good lord , he is in presence here .
Madam , madam --
For what , I pray thee ?
Faith , so they say , but I think it rather consists of eating and drinking .
Well . We will have such a prologue , and it shall be written in eight and six .
Pretty Ophelia --
Have done thy charm , thou hateful , withered hag .
Come , let us to the banquet .
" Remember who commended thy yellow stockings -- "
Let 's all sink wi ' th ' king .
Call him hither , good Monsieur Le Beau .
Nay , come , again .
No , not much moved . I do not think but Desdemona 's honest .
Nay , but his jesting spirit , which is now crept into a lute string and now governed by stops --
Sir John , you are so fretful you cannot live long .
Come , bid me do anything for thee .
Bind him , I say .
No , assure you . The wall is down that parted their fathers . Will it please you to see the epilogue , or to hear a Bergomask dance between two of our company ?
Yet be content .
Not where he eats , but where he is eaten . A certain convocation of politic worms are e' en at him . Your worm is your only emperor for diet . We fat all creatures else to fat us , and we fat ourselves for maggots . Your fat king and your lean beggar is but variable service -- two dishes , but to one table . That 's the end .
Do not you hear a cry ?
Zounds , he dies ! I had forgot the reward .
I will acquit you .
Go charge Agrippa Plant those that have revolted in the vant , That Antony may seem to spend his fury Upon himself .
I think ' twas Soto that your Honor means .
And unbound the rest , and then come in the other .
Pray you , let 's have no words of this , but when they ask you what it means , say you this : Tomorrow is Saint Valentine 's day , All in the morning betime , And I a maid at your window , To be your Valentine . Then up he rose , and donned his clothes , And dupped the chamber door . Let in the maid that out a maid Never departed more .
What , are you hurt , lieutenant ?
As willingly as e' er I came from school .
As I hope For quiet days , fair issue , and long life , With such love as ' tis now , the murkiest den , The most opportune place , the strong 'st suggestion , Our worser genius can shall never melt Mine honor into lust to take away The edge of that day 's celebration When I shall think , or Phoebus ' steeds are foundered , Or night kept chained below .
Beat me ?
Most certain . Let our catch be " Thou Knave . "
Good night , my lord .
Not Romeo , Prince , he was Mercutio 's friend . His fault concludes but what the law should end , The life of Tybalt .
But brother Anthony --
Pish for thee , Iceland dog , Thou prick - eared cur of Iceland !
Master , knock the door hard .
Ay , there 's the villany .
Here he comes with your niece . Give them way till he take leave , and presently after him .
It is no shame . The fellow finds his vein And , yielding to him , humors well his frenzy .
Do you think ' tis this ?
Which they will make an obedient father .
Boundless intemperance In nature is a tyranny . It hath been The untimely emptying of the happy throne And fall of many kings . But fear not yet To take upon you what is yours . You may Convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty And yet seem cold ; the time you may so hoodwink . We have willing dames enough . There cannot be That vulture in you to devour so many As will to greatness dedicate themselves , Finding it so inclined .
If but one of his pockets could speak , would it not say he lies ?
No , nor you shall not .
He is my dear friend , an please you .
What I have done that misbecame my place , My person , or my liege 's sovereignty .
Your eyes drop millstones , when fools ' eyes drop tears . I like you lads . About your business straight . Go , go , dispatch .
It faded on the crowing of the cock . Some say that ever ' gainst that season comes Wherein our Saviour 's birth is celebrated , The bird of dawning singeth all night long . And then , they say , no spirit dare stir abroad . The nights are wholesome . Then no planets strike , No fairy takes , nor witch hath power to charm , So hallowed and so gracious is that time .
His lordship is walked forth into the orchard . Please it your Honor knock but at the gate And he himself will answer .
Goes it against the main of Poland , sir , Or for some frontier ?
And were the king on ' t , what would I do ?
Thy grace shall have it .
Hark !
His eye is hollow , and he changes much .
Cassio !
Would you praise Caesar , say " Caesar . " Go no further .
It 's dry , sir .
Pray you come in . I will bestow you where you shall have time To speak your bosom freely .
Is my lord angry ?
The sooner , sweet , for you .
Good sir , be a man , Think every bearded fellow that 's but yoked May draw with you . There 's millions now alive That nightly lie in those unproper beds Which they dare swear peculiar . Your case is better . Oh , ' tis the spite of hell , the fiend 's arch - mock , To lip a wanton in a secure couch , And to suppose her chaste . No , let me know , And knowing what I am , I know what she shall be .
So I would not he should do me , my lord , lest I should prove the mother of fools . I have brought Count Claudio , whom you sent me to seek .
I hope he is , but yet let mothers doubt .
If thou dost slander her and torture me , Never pray more . Abandon all remorse . On horror 's head horrors accumulate , Do deeds to make heaven weep , all earth amazed , For nothing canst thou to damnation add Greater than that .
Sola , sola ! Wo , ha , ho ! Sola , sola !
Offended us you have not , but the king .
Alack , my lord , what do you mean by that ?
O , then I see you will part but with light gifts . In weightier things you 'll say a beggar nay .
Nor I neither , by this heavenly light . I might do ' t as well i ' th ' dark .
Oh , sir , Lucentio slipped me like his greyhound , Which runs himself and catches for his master .
This was not counterfeit . There is too great testimony in your complexion that it was a passion of earnest .
To visit you , my lord , no other occasion .
Look , here she comes .
Ay , so we will .
All but Metellus Cimber , and he 's gone To seek you at your house . Well , I will hie , And so bestow these papers as you bade me .
Bid the players make haste .
I ' faith , I am sorry that thou art not well . Sweet , sweet , sweet Nurse , tell me , what says my love ?
For them all together , which maintained so politic a state of evil that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with them . But for which of my good parts did you first suffer love for me ?
Peace ! Not Caesar 's valor hath o'erthrown Antony , But Antony 's hath triumphed on itself .
Yea , an ' t please you .
Mistrust it not , for sure Aeacides Was Ajax , called so from his grandfather .
Why , madam , if I were your father 's dog , You should not use me so .
What 's the noise ?
No , not to be so odd and from all fashions As Beatrice is , cannot be commendable . But who dare tell her so ? If I should speak , She would mock me into air . O , she would laugh me Out of myself , press me to death with wit .
Nay , you must call me Rosalind . --Come , sister , will you go ?
You 'll heat my blood . No more .
O my dear lord --
I 'll do ' t , but it dislikes me .
Lead , monster ; we 'll follow . I would I could see this taborer . He lays it on .
Come , wilt thou see me ride ? And when I am a - horseback , I will swear I love thee infinitely . But hark you , Kate , I must not have you henceforth question me Whither I go , nor reason whereabout . Whither I must , I must ; and to conclude , This evening must I leave you , gentle Kate . I know you wise , but yet no farther wise Than Harry Percy 's wife ; constant you are , But yet a woman ; and for secrecy No lady closer , for I well believe Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know , And so far will I trust thee , gentle Kate .
Think it no more . For nature , crescent , does not grow alone In thews and bulk , but , as this temple waxes , The inward service of the mind and soul Grows wide withal . Perhaps he loves you now , And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch The virtue of his will , but you must fear . His greatness weighed , his will is not his own , For he himself is subject to his birth . He may not , as unvalued persons do , Carve for himself , for on his choice depends The safety and health of this whole state . And therefore must his choice be circumscribed Unto the voice and yielding of that body Whereof he is the head . Then if he says he loves you ,
You have her father 's love , Demetrius . Let me have Hermia 's . Do you marry him .
You have too courtly a wit for me . I 'll rest .
My lord .
Peace ! I will imitate the honorable Romans in brevity .
Alas , thrice - gentle Cassio , My advocation is not now in tune . My lord is not my lord , nor should I know him Were he in favor as in humor altered . So help me every spirit sanctified As I have spoken for you all my best And stood within the blank of his displeasure For my free speech . You must awhile be patient . What I can do I will , and more I will Than for myself I dare . Let that suffice you .
God 's arm strike with us ! ' Tis a fearful odds . God be wi ' you , princes all . I 'll to my charge . If we no more meet till we meet in heaven , Then joyfully , my noble Lord of Bedford , My dear Lord Gloucester , and my good Lord Exeter , And my kind kinsman , warriors all , adieu .
In Belmont is a lady richly left , And she is fair and -- fairer than that word -- Of wondrous virtues . Sometimes from her eyes I did receive fair speechless messages . Her name is Portia , nothing undervalued To Cato 's daughter , Brutus ' Portia . Nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth , For the four winds blow in from every coast Renowned suitors , and her sunny locks Hang on her temples like a golden fleece , Which makes her seat of Belmont Colchos ' strand , And many Jasons come in quest of her . O my Antonio , had I but the means To hold a rival place with one of them , I have a mind presages me such thrift That I should questionless be fortunate !
Women are made to bear , and so are you .
Help , help , O , help !
Thrice the brinded cat hath mewed .
Come , madam , come . I in all haste was sent .
Kent , on thy life , no more .
By his authority I will proclaim it That he which finds him shall deserve our thanks , Bringing the murderous coward to the stake . He that conceals him , death .
The Moor ! I know his trumpet .
What , Pindarus ! Where art thou , Pindarus ?
What , wouldst thou have me go and beg my food , Or with a base and boist'rous sword enforce A thievish living on the common road ? This I must do , or know not what to do . Yet this I will not do , do how I can . I rather will subject me to the malice Of a diverted blood and bloody brother .
No , he 's in Tartar limbo , worse than hell . A devil in an everlasting garment hath him , One whose hard heart is buttoned up with steel ; A fiend , a fury , pitiless and rough ; A wolf , nay , worse , a fellow all in buff ; A back - friend , a shoulder clapper , one that countermands
Lechery ! I defy lechery . There 's one at the gate .
So , Dolabella , It shall content me best . Be gentle to her . To Caesar I will speak what you shall please , If you 'll employ me to him .
Who can be wise , amazed , temp'rate , and furious , Loyal and neutral , in a moment ? No man . Th ' expedition of my violent love Outrun the pauser , reason . Here lay Duncan , His silver skin laced with his golden blood , And his gashed stabs looked like a breach in nature For ruin 's wasteful entrance ; there , the murderers , Steeped in the colors of their trade , their daggers Unmannerly breeched with gore . Who could refrain , That had a heart to love , and in that heart Courage to make 's love known ?
I 'll not have it altered .
More wonderful , when angels are so angry . Vouchsafe , divine perfection of a woman , Of these supposed crimes to give me leave By circumstance but to acquit myself .
That were hard to compass , Because she will admit no kind of suit , No , not the duke 's .
A very forward March - chick ! How came you to this ?
But do not so . I have five hundred crowns , The thrifty hire I saved under your father , Which I did store to be my foster nurse When service should in my old limbs lie lame And unregarded age in corners thrown . Take that , and He that doth the ravens feed , Yea , providently caters for the sparrow , Be comfort to my age . Here is the gold . All this I give you . Let me be your servant . Though I look old , yet I am strong and lusty , For in my youth I never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo The means of weakness and debility . Therefore my age is as a lusty winter , Frosty but kindly . Let me go with you . I 'll do the service of a younger man In all your business and necessities .
Truly , sir , in respect of a fine workman , I am but , as you would say , a cobbler .
How now , Horatio ? You tremble and look pale . Is not this something more than fantasy ? What think you on ' t ?
God save your Grace .
Why should their liberty than ours be more ?
trick up with new - tuned oaths ; and what a beard of the general 's cut and a horrid suit of the camp will do among foaming bottles and ale - washed wits is wonderful to be thought on . But you must learn to know such slanders of the age , or else you may be marvelously mistook .
Make thy two eyes , like stars , start from their spheres , Thy knotted and combined locks to part And each particular hair to stand on end , Like quills upon the fearful porpentine . But this eternal blazon must not be To ears of flesh and blood . List , list , O , list ! If thou didst ever thy dear father love --
Nay , ' tis no matter , sir , what he ' leges in Latin . If this be not a lawful case for me to leave his service -- look you , sir : he bid me knock him and rap him soundly , sir . Well , was it fit for a servant to use his master so , being perhaps , for aught I see , two - and - thirty , a pip out ? Whom , would to God , I had well knocked at first , Then had not Grumio come by the worst .
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time , Th ' oppressor 's wrong , the proud man 's contumely , The pangs of despised love , the law 's delay , The insolence of office , and the spurns That patient merit of th ' unworthy takes , When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin ? Who would fardels bear , To grunt and sweat under a weary life , But that the dread of something after death , The undiscovered country from whose bourn No traveler returns , puzzles the will And makes us rather bear those ills we have Than fly to others that we know not of ? Thus conscience does make cowards of us all , And thus the native hue of resolution Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought , And enterprises of great pith and moment With this regard their currents turn awry , And lose the name of action . --Soft you now , The fair Ophelia ! --Nymph , in thy orisons Be all my sins remembered .
Oh , no , he goes into Mauritania and taketh away with him the fair Desdemona , unless his abode be lingered here by some accident -- wherein none can be so determinate as the removing of Cassio .
I know it is the moon .
I will do so . --My Lord of Westmoreland , Lead him to his tent .
Let four captains Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage , For he was likely , had he been put on , To have proved most royally . And , for his passage , The soldiers ' music and the rites of war Speak loudly for him . Take up the bodies . Such a sight as this Becomes the field , but here shows much amiss . Go , bid the soldiers shoot .
Will you walk , sir?- -O Desdemona --
But did you not request to have it cut ?
Tut , I have the best armor of the world . Would it were day !
I am not tall enough to become the function well , nor lean enough to be thought a good student , but to be said an honest man and a good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say a careful man and a great scholar . The competitors enter .
Tut , dun' s the mouse , the constable 's own word . If thou art dun , we 'll draw thee from the mire , Or -- save your reverence -- love , wherein thou stick 'st Up to the ears . Come , we burn daylight , ho !
Art thou a churchman ?
This man said , sir , that Don John , the Prince 's brother , was a villain .
Oh , a pit of clay for to be made For such a guest is meet .
What would my potent master ? Here I am .
To make you answer truly to your name .
He bears The third part of the world , man . Seest not ?
Peace , sirrah ! You beastly knave , know you no reverence ?
Sir , a word with you . I have three pound to free Mouldy and Bullcalf .
He tells me , my dear Gertrude , he hath found The head and source of all your son 's distemper .
Canst tell how an oyster makes his shell ?
Is she as tall as me ?
Give me thy sword . --A peasant stand up thus ?
Made it for me , sir ? I bespoke it not .
To whom , my lord ? With whom ? How am I false ?
Soft and fair , Friar . --Which is Beatrice ?
See where she comes and brings your froward wives As prisoners to her womanly persuasion . -- Katherine , that cap of yours becomes you not . Off with that bauble , throw it underfoot .
A man that had a wife with such a wit , he might say " Wit , whither wilt ? "
There is ten thousand --
Say he is sick .
I pray thee , tell me then that he is well .
Case you , case you . On with your vizards . There 's money of the King 's coming down the hill . ' Tis going to the King 's Exchequer .
Can you make no use of your discontent ?
This is the deadly spite that angers me : My wife can speak no English , I no Welsh .
Sweet remembrancer ! Now , good digestion wait on appetite , And health on both !
No , ' tis not so deep as a well nor so wide as a church - door , but ' tis enough , ' twill serve . Ask for me tomorrow , and you shall find me a grave man . I am peppered , I warrant , for this world . A plague o ' both your houses ! Zounds , a dog , a rat , a mouse , a cat to scratch a man to death ! A braggart , a rogue , a villain that fights by the book of arithmetic ! Why the devil came you between us ? I was hurt under your arm .
I 'll never care what wickedness I do , If this man come to good .
Is it come to this ?
Do I look like a cudgel or a hovel-post , a staff or a prop ? Do you know me , Father ?
And do still , by these pickers and stealers .
My good lord . God give your Lordship good time of the day . I am glad to see your Lordship abroad . I heard say your Lordship was sick : I hope your Lordship goes abroad by advice . Your Lordship , though not clean past your youth , have yet some smack of an ague in you , some relish of the saltness of time in you , and I most humbly beseech your Lordship to have a reverent care of your health .
He hath confessed .
But soft , I pray you . Did King Richard then Proclaim my brother Edmund Mortimer Heir to the crown ?
Go hence . Good night . And here stands all your state : Either be gone before the watch be set , Or by the break of day disguised from hence . Sojourn in Mantua . I 'll find out your man , And he shall signify from time to time Every good hap to you that chances here . Give me thy hand . ' Tis late . Farewell , good night .
Avoid then , fiend ! What tell 'st thou me of supping ? Thou art , as you are all , a sorceress . I conjure thee to leave me and be gone .
Ay , my good lord . Your royal preparation Makes us hear something .
Lo , lo , again ! Bite him to death , I prithee .
I must be laughed at If or for nothing or a little , I Should say myself offended , and with you Chiefly i ' th ' world ; more laughed at , that I should Once name you derogately , when to sound your name It not concerned me .
No , by no means .
Didst thou behold Octavia ?
So to most noble Caesar .
Hover about her ; say that right for right Hath dimmed your infant morn to aged night .
Ha , cousin Silence , that thou hadst seen that that this knight and I have seen ! --Ha , Sir John , said I well ?
Our duty to your honor .
With this , my lord , myself have naught to do .
To punish you by the heels would amend the attention of your ears , and I care not if I do become your physician .
" Caesar , beware of Brutus . Take heed of Cassius . Come not near Casca . Have an eye to Cinna . Trust not Trebonius . Mark well Metellus Cimber . Decius Brutus loves thee not . Thou hast wronged Caius Ligarius . There is but one mind in all these men , and it is bent against Caesar . If thou beest not immortal , look about you . Security gives way to conspiracy . The mighty gods defend thee ! Thy lover , Artemidorus " Here will I stand till Caesar pass along , And as a suitor will I give him this . My heart laments that virtue cannot live Out of the teeth of emulation . If thou read this , O Caesar , thou mayst live . If not , the Fates with traitors do contrive .
Bestow this place on us a little while .
No , cousin , I 'll to Fife .
' Tis Cinna . I do know him by his gait . He is a friend . --Cinna , where haste you so ?
Some dungeon .
As heart can think . There is not such a word Spoke of in Scotland as this term of fear .
Say , is your tardy master now at hand ?
Unhappy fortune ! By my brotherhood , The letter was not nice but full of charge , Of dear import , and the neglecting it May do much danger . Friar John , go hence . Get me an iron crow and bring it straight Unto my cell .
Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion .
' Tis time I should inform thee farther . Lend thy hand And pluck my magic garment from me .
I am Robert Shallow , sir , a poor esquire of this county and one of the King 's justices of the peace . What is your good pleasure with me ?
Prescribe not us our duty .
As roughly as my modesty would let me .
Where learned you that oath , fool ?
Ay , marry , why was he sent into England ?
I would you had but the wit ; ' twere better than your dukedom . Good faith , this same young sober - blooded boy doth not love me , nor a man cannot make him laugh . But that 's no marvel ; he drinks no wine . There 's never none of these demure boys come to any proof , for thin drink doth so overcool their blood , and making many fish meals , that they fall into a kind of male green - sickness , and then , when they marry , they get wenches . They are generally fools and cowards , which some of us should be too , but for inflammation .
I " an itching palm " ! You know that you are Brutus that speak this , Or , by the gods , this speech were else your last .
I will be hanged , if some eternal villain , Some busy and insinuating rogue , Some cogging , cozening slave , to get some office , Have not devised this slander . I will be hanged else !
Yes -- to smell pork , to eat of the habitation which your prophet the Nazarite conjured the devil into . I will buy with you , sell with you , talk with you , walk with you , and so following , but I will not eat with you , drink with you , nor pray with you . What news on the Rialto ? Who is he comes here ?
I could find in my heart to disgrace my man 's apparel and to cry like a woman , but I must comfort the weaker vessel , as doublet and hose ought to show itself courageous to petticoat . Therefore courage , good Aliena .
' Tis just . And it is very much lamented , Brutus , That you have no such mirrors as will turn Your hidden worthiness into your eye That you might see your shadow . I have heard Where many of the best respect in Rome , Except immortal Caesar , speaking of Brutus And groaning underneath this age 's yoke , Have wished that noble Brutus had his eyes .
Neither , fair maid , if either thee dislike .
I will do so . Till then , think of the world .
Being once perfected how to grant suits , How to deny them , who t ' advance and who To trash for overtopping , new created The creatures that were mine , I say -- or changed ' em , Or else new formed ' em -- having both the key Of officer and office , set all hearts i ' th ' state To what tune pleased his ear , that now he was The ivy which had hid my princely trunk , And sucked my verdure out on ' t . Thou attend 'st not .
Why then , lament therefor .
Forsooth , five years , and as much as to --
When I know the gentleman , I 'll tell him what you say .
Almost at odds with morning , which is which .
O , let me kiss that hand !
What talkest thou to me of the hangman ? If I hang , I 'll make a fat pair of gallows , for if I hang , old Sir John hangs with me , and thou knowest he is no starveling . Tut , there are other Troyans that thou dream 'st not of , the which for sport sake are content to do the profession some grace , that would , if matters should be looked into , for their own credit sake make all whole . I am joined with no foot - land - rakers , no long - staff sixpenny strikers , none of these mad mustachio purple-hued malt - worms , but with nobility and tranquillity , burgomasters and great oneyers , such as can hold in , such as will strike sooner than speak , and speak sooner than drink , and drink sooner than pray , and yet , zounds , I lie , for they pray continually to their saint the commonwealth , or rather not pray to her but prey on her , for they ride up and down on her and make her their boots .
Find thou the means , and I 'll find such a man . But now I 'll tell thee joyful tidings , girl .
Young budding virgin , fair and fresh and sweet , Whither away , or where is thy abode ? Happy the parents of so fair a child . Happier the man whom favorable stars Allot thee for his lovely bedfellow !
I prithee , do so .
I 'll have no worse a name than Jove 's own page , And therefore look you call me Ganymede . But what will you be called ?
He did in some sort , indeed , handle women , but then he was rheumatic , and talked of the Whore of Babylon .
And may , but how ? How satisfied , my lord ? Would you , the supervisor , grossly gape on , Behold her topped ?
Not out of your apparel , and yet out of your suit . Am not I your Rosalind ?
Thou losest thy old smell .
Caesar 's better parts Shall be crowned in Brutus !
Let it alone . Let 's to billiards . Come , Charmian .
Sweet Phoebe - -
Noble friends , That which combined us was most great , and let not A leaner action rend us . What 's amiss , May it be gently heard . When we debate Our trivial difference loud , we do commit Murder in healing wounds . Then , noble partners , The rather for I earnestly beseech , Touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms , Nor curstness grow to th ' matter .
We have been praying for our husbands ' welfare , Which speed , we hope , the better for our words . Are they returned ?
No.
See how they kiss and court ! Signior Lucentio , Here is my hand , and here I firmly vow Never to woo her more , but do forswear her As one unworthy all the former favors That I have fondly flattered her withal .
O monstrous arrogance ! Thou liest , thou thread , thou thimble , Thou yard , three - quarters , half - yard , quarter , nail ! Thou flea , thou nit , thou winter cricket thou ! Braved in mine own house with a skein of thread ? Away , thou rag , thou quantity , thou remnant , Or I shall so be - mete thee with thy yard As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou liv'st ! I tell thee , I , that thou hast marred her gown .
' Tis he .
Lo , she is one of this confederacy ! Now I perceive they have conjoined all three To fashion this false sport , in spite of me . -- Injurious Hermia ! Most ungrateful maid ! Have you conspired , have you with these contrived To bait me with this foul derision ? Is all the counsel that we two have shared , The sisters ' vows , the hours that we have spent When we have chid the hasty - footed time For parting us -- oh , is it all forgot ? All schooldays ' friendship , childhood innocence ? We , Hermia , like two artificial gods , Have with our needles created both one flower , Both on one sampler , sitting on one cushion , Both warbling of one song , both in one key , As if our hands , our sides , voices , and minds , Had been incorporate . So we grew together , Like to a double cherry -- seeming parted But yet an union in partition -- Two lovely berries molded on one stem ;
Perhaps some merchant hath invited him , And from the mart he 's somewhere gone to dinner . Good sister , let us dine and never fret . A man is master of his liberty ; Time is their master , and when they see time They 'll go or come . If so , be patient , sister .
Let me speak a little . This youth that you see here I snatched one half out of the jaws of death , Relieved him with such sanctity of love , And to his image , which methought did promise Most venerable worth , did I devotion .
How now ? How now ? Do you hear this ?
How does my bounteous sister ? Go with me To bless this twain that they may prosperous be , And honored in their issue .
Well , what was yours ?
Good old knight , Collect them all together at my tent . I 'll be before thee .
What , threat you me with telling of the king ? Tell him , and spare not . Look , what I have said , I will avouch ' t in presence of the king ; I dare adventure to be sent to th ' Tower . ' Tis time to speak . My pains are quite forgot .
I am alone the villain of the earth , And feel I am so most . O Antony , Thou mine of bounty , how wouldst thou have paid My better service , when my turpitude Thou dost so crown with gold ! This blows my heart . If swift thought break it not , a swifter mean Shall outstrike thought , but thought will do ' t , I feel . I fight against thee ? No , I will go seek Some ditch wherein to die . The foul 'st best fits My latter part of life .
If I thought that , I tell thee , homicide , These nails should rend that beauty from my cheeks .
He did bespeak a chain for me but had it not .
We see the ground whereon these woes do lie , But the true ground of all these piteous woes We cannot without circumstance descry .
Not I.
Is all our company here ?
That with this little arm and this good sword I have made my way through more impediments Than twenty times your stop . But , oh , vain boast ! Who can control his fate ? ' tis not so now . Be not afraid , though you do see me weaponed . Here is my journey 's end , here is my butt , And very sea - mark of my utmost sail . Do you go back dismayed ? ' tis a lost fear . Man but a rush against Othello 's breast , And he retires . Where should Othello go?- - Now , how dost thou look now ? O ill-starred wench , Pale as thy smock ! When we shall meet at compt This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven And fiends will snatch at it . Cold , cold , my girl , Even like thy chastity . O cursed , cursed slave ! Whip me , ye devils , From the possession of this heavenly sight ! Blow me about in winds , roast me in sulfur , Wash me in steep - down gulfs of liquid fire ! -- Oh , Desdemona ! Desdemona ! dead ! Oh ! Oh !
" Le chien est retourne a son propre vomissement , et la truie lavee au bourbier . " Thou mak 'st use of anything .
And so no doubt he is , my gracious madam .
Both which I have had , but their date is out ; and therefore I 'll hide me .
Seyton ! --I am sick at heart , When I behold --Seyton , I say ! --This push Will cheer me ever , or disseat me now . I have lived long enough . My way of life Is fall'n into the sere , the yellow leaf , And that which should accompany old age , As honor , love , obedience , troops of friends , I must not look to have , but , in their stead , Curses , not loud but deep , mouth - honor , breath Which the poor heart would fain deny and dare not . Seyton !
I take thee at thy word . Call me but love , and I 'll be new baptized . Henceforth I never will be Romeo .
There 's little of the melancholy element in her , my lord . She is never sad but when she sleeps , and not ever sad then , for I have heard my daughter say she hath often dreamed of unhappiness and waked herself with laughing .
Come , you shake the head at so long a breathing , but I warrant thee , Claudio , the time shall not go dully by us . I will in the interim undertake one of Hercules ' labors , which is to bring Signor Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a mountain of affection , th ' one with th ' other . I would fain have it a match , and I doubt not but to fashion it , if you three will but minister such assistance as I shall give you direction .
Kent banished thus ? And France in choler parted ? And the king gone tonight , prescribed his power Confined to exhibition ? All this done Upon the gad?- -Edmund , how now ? What news ?
Now , in good sadness , son Petruchio , I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all .
The ground is bloody . --Search about the churchyard . Go , some of you . Whoe'er you find , attach .
Nor none that live , I hope .
Softly , my masters . If you be gentlemen , Do me this right : hear me with patience . Baptista is a noble gentleman , To whom my father is not all unknown , And were his daughter fairer than she is , She may more suitors have , and me for one .
And bound them .
Good words are better than bad strokes , Octavius .
Hid 'st thou that forehead with a golden crown Where should be branded , if that right were right , The slaughter of the prince that owed that crown And the dire death of my poor sons and brothers ? Tell me , thou villain - slave , where are my children ?
Let me see . About Michaelmas next , I shall be --
Sirrah ! Where 's Snare ?
Welcome hither . I have begun to plant thee , and will labor To make thee full of growing . Noble Banquo , That hast no less deserved , nor must be known No less to have done so , let me infold thee And hold thee to my heart .
Niece , will you look to those things I told you of ?
This business is well ended . My liege and madam , to expostulate What majesty should be , what duty is , Why day is day , night night , and time is time , Were nothing but to waste night , day , and time . Therefore , since brevity is the soul of wit And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes , I will be brief : your noble son is mad . Mad call I it , for , to define true madness , What is ' t but to be nothing else but mad ? But let that go .
Amen , amen to that fair prayer , say I. And then end life when I end loyalty ! Here is my bed . Sleep give thee all his rest !
Wilt thou believe me , Hal , three or four bonds of forty pound apiece , and a seal ring of my grandfather 's .
If it be not for some purpose of import , Give ' t me again . Poor lady , she 'll run mad When she shall lack it .
Kill me tomorrow -- let me live tonight !
My lord , ' tis but begun .
I charge thee , hence , and do not haunt me thus .
Grumio , mum ! God save you , Signior Gremio .
You the like loss ?
Patience , good sir .
Say now whose suit is he arrested at .
O , name him not . Let us not break with him , For he will never follow anything That other men begin .
God save you , sir .
My lord ?
Have you heard of no likely wars toward ' twixt the two Dukes of Cornwall and Albany ?
Hark , I hear horses .
If it please you to dine with us .
Why then , thou hast it . Two deep enemies , Foes to my rest , and my sweet sleep 's disturbers , Are they that I would have thee deal upon . Tyrrel , I mean those bastards in the Tower .
Thanks , good Egeus . What 's the news with thee ?
I would I knew thy heart .
Wherefore was I to this keen mockery born ? When at your hands did I deserve this scorn ? Is ' t not enough , is ' t not enough , young man , That I did never , no , nor never can , Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius ' eye , But you must flout my insufficiency ? Good troth , you do me wrong , good sooth , you do , In such disdainful manner me to woo . But fare you well . Perforce I must confess I thought you lord of more true gentleness . Oh , that a lady of one man refused Should of another therefore be abused !
I do follow here in the chase not like a hound that hunts , but one that fills up the cry . My money is almost spent , I have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled , and I think the issue will be I shall have so much experience for my pains . And so , with no money at all and a little more wit , return again to Venice .
Francis Flute , the bellows - mender ?
The French ambassador upon that instant Craved audience . And the hour , I think , is come To give him hearing . Is it four o'clock ?
And so swear I.
Did he break out into tears ?
It were superfluous , for his apparel is built upon his back , and the whole frame stands upon pins . Prick him no more .
We shall further think on ' t .
I did very well note him .
With all my heart .
What were his marks ?
Give us a light there , ho !
But where 's the money ?
Would I could answer This comfort with the like . But I have words That would be howled out in the desert air , Where hearing should not latch them .
Alack , the night comes on , and the high winds Do sorely ruffle . For many miles about There 's scarce a bush .
But in the other 's silence do I see Maid 's mild behavior and sobriety . Peace , Tranio .
Sir , sometimes when he is not Antony He comes too short of that great property Which still should go with Antony .
Serve God , love me , and mend . There will I leave you too , for here comes one in haste .
By my troth , thou sayest true . For , since the little wit that fools have was silenced , the little foolery that wise men have makes a great show . Here comes Monsieur Le Beau .
I pray you , give me leave to go from hence . I am not well . Send the deed after me , And I will sign it .
Observe how Antony becomes his flaw , And what thou think 'st his very action speaks In every power that moves .
Why , let her except , before excepted .
If I have too austerely punished you , Your compensation makes amends , for I Have given you here a third of mine own life -- Or that for which I live -- who once again I tender to thy hand . All thy vexations Were but my trials of thy love and thou Hast strangely stood the test . Here , afore heaven , I ratify this my rich gift . O Ferdinand , Do not smile at me that I boast of her , For thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise And make it halt behind her .
Ay me ! Sad hours seem long . Was that my father that went hence so fast ?
So , Lie there , my art . --Wipe thou thine eyes . Have comfort . The direful spectacle of the wrack , which touched The very virtue of compassion in thee , I have with such provision in mine art So safely ordered that there is no soul -- No , not so much perdition as an hair Betid to any creature in the vessel -- Which thou heard 'st cry , which thou sawst sink . Sit down . For thou must now know farther .
Talk you of killing ?
But , my good lord , How now for mitigation of this bill Urged by the Commons ? Doth his Majesty Incline to it or no ?
Ay , and to wage this battle at Pharsalia , Where Caesar fought with Pompey . But these offers , Which serve not for his vantage , he shakes off , And so should you .
My lord .
Do not , my lord .
Art thou good at these kickshawses , knight ?
Ay , by my troth , the case may be amended .
Fie , fie ! What , are you mad ?
Wisdom ! To leave his wife , to leave his babes , His mansion and his titles in a place From whence himself does fly ? He loves us not ; He wants the natural touch . For the poor wren , The most diminutive of birds , will fight , Her young ones in her nest , against the owl . All is the fear and nothing is the love , As little is the wisdom , where the flight So runs against all reason .
We are resolved , my lord .
Off , pluck off ! The sevenfold shield of Ajax cannot keep The battery from my heart . O , cleave , my sides ! Heart , once be stronger than thy continent . Crack thy frail case ! --Apace , Eros , apace . No more a soldier . Bruised pieces , go . You have been nobly borne . From me awhile .
What we will do , we do upon command .
One that old Frederick , your father , loves .
I am he that is so love - shaked . I pray you tell me your remedy .
And bid her come hither .
Yes , my lord , yes . He at Philippi kept His sword e' en like a dancer , while I struck The lean and wrinkled Cassius , and ' twas I That the mad Brutus ended . He alone Dealt on lieutenantry , and no practice had In the brave squares of war , yet now -- no matter .
You mistake , sir , you mistake , sir . Pray , what do you think is his name ?
Peace , fool . Thy master and his man are here , And that is false thou dost report to us .
It is backed like a weasel .
Go call the Earls of Surrey and of Warwick ; But , ere they come , bid them o'erread these letters And well consider of them . Make good speed .
Well , I could reply , If we should serve with horse and mares together , The horse were merely lost . The mares would bear A soldier and his horse .
O , the Lord preserve thy good Grace ! By my troth , welcome to London . Now the Lord bless that sweet face of thine . O Jesu , are you come from Wales ?
An if he hear thee , thou wilt anger him .
Ay , a tailor , sir . A stone - cutter or painter could not have made him so ill though they had been but two years o ' th ' trade .
I understand you not , my lord .
The valiant Caesar !
Why , one that swears and lies .
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder .
Eros , thou yet behold 'st me ?
Oh , by no means . She mocks all her wooers out of suit .
What 's the matter ?
What judgment shall I dread , doing no wrong ? You have among you many a purchased slave , Which -- like your asses and your dogs and mules -- You use in abject and in slavish parts Because you bought them . Shall I say to you , " Let them be free ! Marry them to your heirs ! Why sweat they under burdens ? Let their beds Be made as soft as yours and let their palates Be seasoned with such viands " ? You will answer , " The slaves are ours . " So do I answer you . The pound of flesh which I demand of him Is dearly bought . ' Tis mine and I will have it . If you deny me , fie upon your law -- There is no force in the decrees of Venice . I stand for judgment . Answer , shall I have it ?
O God , I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space , were it not that I have bad dreams .
Of Launcelot , an ' t please your mastership .
If I find him comforting the king , it will stuff his suspicion more fully . I will persevere in my course of loyalty , though the conflict be sore between that and my blood .
Nay , that he did not .
Sir , she is mortal . But by immortal providence , she 's mine . I chose her when I could not ask my father For his advice , nor thought I had one . She Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan , Of whom so often I have heard renown But never saw before , of whom I have Received a second life . And second father This lady makes him to me .
Out , hyperbolical fiend ! How vexest thou this man ! Talkest thou nothing but of ladies ?
Yea , but a little charge will trench him here And on this north side win this cape of land , And then he runs straight and even .
Yes , one place else , if you will hear me name it .
Marry , sir , by a rule as plain as the plain bald pate of Father Time himself .
Thou canst not fear us , Pompey , with thy sails . We 'll speak with thee at sea . At land , thou know 'st How much we do o'ercount thee .
Hie , good Sir Michael , bear this sealed brief With winged haste to the Lord Marshal , This to my cousin Scroop , and all the rest To whom they are directed . If you knew How much they do import , you would make haste .
Tom will throw his head at them . --Avaunt , you curs ! Tooth that poisons if it bite , Mastiff , greyhound , mongrel grim ,
Do you love me ?
Qui vous la ?
I durst not !
Truly , shepherd , in respect of itself , it is a good life ; but in respect that it is a shepherd 's life , it is naught . In respect that it is solitary , I like it very well ; but in respect that it is private , it is a very vile life . Now in respect it is in the fields , it pleaseth me well ; but in respect it is not in the court , it is tedious . As it is a spare life , look you , it fits my humor well ; but as there is no more plenty in it , it goes much against my stomach . Hast any philosophy in thee , shepherd ?
Yea , wherefore should she not ?
Take him on the costard with the hilts of thy sword , and then throw him into the malmsey butt in the next room .
And I in all unwillingness will go . O , would to God that the inclusive verge Of golden metal that must round my brow Were red-hot steel to sear me to the brains ! Anointed let me be with deadly venom , And die ere men can say , " God save the Queen . "
In love ?
Alas the day ! I never gave him cause .
Good lieutenant , good corporal , offer nothing here .
Truly , sir , all that I live by is with the awl . I meddle with no tradesman 's matters nor women 's matters , but withal I am indeed , sir , a surgeon to old shoes . When they are in great danger , I recover them . As proper men as ever trod upon neat 's leather have gone upon my handiwork .
To him you follow'st , I will pay thy graces Home both in word and deed . -- Most cruelly Didst thou , Alonso , use me and my daughter . Thy brother was a furtherer in the act . -- Thou art pinched for ' t now , Sebastian . -- Flesh and blood , You brother mine , that entertained ambition , Expelled remorse and nature , whom , with Sebastian , Whose inward pinches therefore are most strong , Would here have killed your king --I do forgive thee , Unnatural though thou art . Their understanding Begins to swell , and the approaching tide Will shortly fill the reasonable shore That now lies foul and muddy . Not one of them That yet looks on me , or would know me . -- Ariel , Fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell . I will discase me , and myself present As I was sometime Milan . Quickly , spirit . Thou shalt ere long be free .
O Scotland , Scotland !
Ay , if you dare do yourself a profit and a right . He sups tonight with a harlotry , and thither will I go to him . He knows not yet of his honorable fortune . If you will watch his going thence you may take him at your pleasure . I will be near to second your attempt , and he shall fall between us . Come , stand not amazed at it , but go along with me . I will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put it on him . It is now high suppertime , and the night grows to waste . About it !
Call him in .
My lord of Gloucester hath conveyed him hence . Some five or six and thirty of his knights , Hot questrists after him , met him at gate , Who with some other of the lord 's dependants Are gone with him towards Dover , where they boast To have well-armed friends .
What dish o ' poison has she dressed him !
And how long is that , think you ?
It must be thought on . If it pass against us , We lose the better half of our possession , For all the temporal lands which men devout By testament have given to the Church Would they strip from us , being valued thus : " As much as would maintain , to the King 's honor , Full fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights , Six thousand and two hundred good esquires ; And , to relief of lazars and weak age Of indigent faint souls past corporal toil , A hundred almshouses right well supplied ; And to the coffers of the King besides , A thousand pounds by th ' year . " Thus runs the bill .
I am afraid , sir , Do what you can , yours will not be entreated .
Sir , no . His indignation derives itself out of a very competent injury . Therefore get you on and give him his desire . Back you shall not to the house , unless you undertake that with me which with as much safety you might answer him . Therefore on , or strip your sword stark naked , for meddle you must , that 's certain , or forswear to wear iron about you .
Your Grace of York , in God 's name then set forward .
I beseech your Graces both to pardon me . His majesty hath straitly given in charge That no man shall have private conference , Of what degree soever , with his brother .
And did not I in rage depart from thence ?
What ring gave you my lord ? Not that , I hope , which you received of me .
Upon her landing , Antony sent to her , Invited her to supper . She replied It should be better he became her guest , Which she entreated . Our courteous Antony , Whom ne'er the word of " No " woman heard speak , Being barbered ten times o'er , goes to the feast , And for his ordinary pays his heart For what his eyes eat only .
I have , my lord .
Because that , like a jack , thou keep 'st the stroke Betwixt thy begging and my meditation . I am not in the giving vein today .
If without peril it be possible , Sweet Blunt , make some good means to speak with him , And give him from me this most needful note .
Spirits , which by mine art I have from their confines called to enact My present fancies .
So had you need . -- I scarce can speak to thank you for myself .
By heaven , Poins , I feel me much to blame So idly to profane the precious time When tempest of commotion , like the south Borne with black vapour , doth begin to melt And drop upon our bare unarmed heads . -- Give me my sword and cloak . --Falstaff , good night .
Marry , will I. Kneel and repeat it . I will stand , and so shall Trinculo .
If you have tears , prepare to shed them now . You all do know this mantle . I remember The first time ever Caesar put it on . ' Twas on a summer 's evening in his tent , That day he overcame the Nervii . Look , in this place ran Cassius ' dagger through . See what a rent the envious Casca made . Through this the well - beloved Brutus stabbed . And as he plucked his cursed steel away , Mark how the blood of Caesar followed it , As rushing out of doors , to be resolved If Brutus so unkindly knocked , or no . For Brutus , as you know , was Caesar 's angel . Judge , O you gods , how dearly Caesar loved him ! This was the most unkindest cut of all . For when the noble Caesar saw him stab , Ingratitude , more strong than traitors ' arms , Quite vanquished him . Then burst his mighty heart , And , in his mantle muffling up his face , Even at the base of Pompey 's statue , Which all the while ran blood , great Caesar fell . O , what a fall was there , my countrymen ! Then I , and you , and all of us fell down , Whilst bloody treason flourished over us . Oh , now you weep , and , I perceive , you feel The dint of pity . These are gracious drops . Kind souls , what , weep you when you but behold Our Caesar 's vesture wounded ? Look you here , Here is himself , marred , as you see , with traitors .
My gracious lord , you look beyond him quite . The Prince but studies his companions Like a strange tongue , wherein , to gain the language , ' Tis needful that the most immodest word Be looked upon and learned ; which , once attained , Your Highness knows , comes to no further use But to be known and hated . So , like gross terms , The Prince will , in the perfectness of time , Cast off his followers , and their memory Shall as a pattern or a measure live , By which his Grace must mete the lives of others , Turning past evils to advantages .
They must take it in sense that feel it .
What wouldst thou , fellow ? And how cam 'st thou hither ?
Nay , I 'll ne'er believe a madman till I see his brains . I will fetch you light , and paper , and ink .
Upon what cause ?
Now Antony must leave her utterly .
A coward , a most devout coward , religious in it .
Would I were in an alehouse in London ! I would give all my fame for a pot of ale , and safety .
Well , thou hast comforted me marvelous much . Go in , and tell my lady I am gone , Having displeased my father , to Lawrence 's cell To make confession and to be absolved .
Sir --
Nay , then .
Can you tell if Rosalind , the duke 's daughter , be banished with her father ?
I pray God he be not , I say .
O sun , thy uprise shall I see no more . Fortune and Antony part here . Even here Do we shake hands . All come to this ? The hearts That spanieled me at heels , to whom I gave Their wishes , do discandy , melt their sweets On blossoming Caesar , and this pine is barked That overtopped them all . Betrayed I am . Oh , this false soul of Egypt ! This grave charm , Whose eye becked forth my wars and called them home , Whose bosom was my crownet , my chief end , Like a right gypsy hath at fast and loose Beguiled me to the very heart of loss . What , Eros , Eros !
" The mobled queen " ?
Why should you think that I should woo in scorn ? Scorn and derision never come in tears .
Half afeard to come .
He is as disproportioned in his manners As in his shape . -- Go , sirrah , to my cell . Take with you your companions . As you look To have my pardon , trim it handsomely .
Because that I familiarly sometimes Do use you for my fool and chat with you , Your sauciness will jest upon my love And make a common of my serious hours . When the sun shines , let foolish gnats make sport , But creep in crannies when he hides his beams . If you will jest with me , know my aspect , And fashion your demeanor to my looks , Or I will beat this method in your sconce .
But , my good lord --
Of Albany 's and Cornwall 's powers you heard not ?
Into a thousand that I have forgotten .
They have here propertied me , keep me in darkness , send ministers to me -- asses ! -- and do all they can to face me out of my wits .
I can , at any unseasonable instant of the night , appoint her to look out at her lady 's chamber window .
Give me thy torch , boy . Hence , and stand aloof . Yet put it out , for I would not be seen . Under yon yew trees lay thee all along , Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground -- So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread , Being loose , unfirm , with digging up of graves , But thou shalt hear it . Whistle then to me , As signal that thou hear 'st something approach . Give me those flowers . Do as I bid thee , go .
I am never merry when I hear sweet music .
Lo , how hollow the fiend speaks within him ! Did not I tell you ? Sir Toby , my lady prays you to have a care of him .
Indeed , you come near me now , Hal , for we that take purses go by the moon and the seven stars , and not by Phoebus , he , that wand'ring knight so fair . And I prithee , sweet wag , when thou art king , as God save thy Grace - -Majesty , I should say , for grace thou wilt have none --
Return , good Catesby , to the gracious duke . Tell him myself , the mayor , and aldermen , No less importing than our general good , In deep designs , and matters of great moment Are come to have some conference with his grace .
Now let it work . Mischief , thou art afoot . Take thou what course thou wilt !
Nay , I know not .
Truly , and to cast away honesty upon a foul slut were to put good meat into an unclean dish .
I gave him no order . I gave him the stuff .
Thank me , sir , for what ?
She has spoke what she should not , I am sure of that . Heaven knows what she has known .
No , none that thou hast wit enough to make .
I will not hear you .
If chance will have me king , why , chance may crown me Without my stir .
Lechery , by this hand , an index and obscure prologue to the history of lust and foul thoughts . They met so near with their lips that their breaths embraced together . Villainous thoughts , Roderigo ! When these mutabilities so marshal the way , hard at hand comes the master and main exercise , th ' incorporate conclusion . Pish ! But , sir , be you ruled by me . I have brought you from Venice . Watch you tonight for the command , I 'll lay ' t upon you . Cassio knows you not . I 'll not be far from you . Do you find some occasion to anger Cassio , either by speaking too loud , or tainting his discipline , or from what other course you please , which the time shall more favorably minister .
Who wouldst thou serve ?
Of that there 's none , or little .
Sir , you may thank yourself for this great loss , That would not bless our Europe with your daughter , But rather loose her to an African , Where she at least is banished from your eye , Who hath cause to wet the grief on ' t .
Two or three groan . ' Tis heavy night , These may be counterfeits . Let 's think ' t unsafe To come in to the cry without more help .
Farewell , farewell . If more thou dost perceive , let me know more . Set on thy wife to observe . Leave me , Iago .
I pray you , take me up and bear me hence Into some other chamber . Softly , pray .
Yes , and shall do till the pangs of death shake him . Infirmity , that decays the wise , doth ever make the better fool .
Is there no voice more worthy than my own To sound more sweetly in great Caesar 's ear For the repealing of my banished brother ?
A commodity in question , I warrant you . --Come , we 'll obey you .
It is more than for some , my lord ; it is for all I have . He hath eaten me out of house and home . He hath put all my substance into that fat belly of his . But I will have some of it out again , or I will ride thee o ' nights like the mare .
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble ?
To this effect , sir , after what flourish your nature will .
Ay me , poor man , how pale and wan he looks !
I dare not , dear , Dear my lord , pardon , I dare not , Lest I be taken . Not th ' imperious show Of the full - fortuned Caesar ever shall Be brooched with me . If knife , drugs , serpents , have Edge , sting , or operation , I am safe . Your wife Octavia , with her modest eyes And still conclusion , shall acquire no honor Demuring upon me . But come , come , Antony -- Help me , my women --We must draw thee up . Assist , good friends .
An he had been a dog that should have howled thus , they would have hanged him . And I pray God his bad voice bode no mischief . I had as lief have heard the night raven , come what plague could have come after it .
Well , I am standing water .
Here , hard by . Stand close .
Captain of our fairy band , Helena is here at hand , And the youth , mistook by me , Pleading for a lover 's fee . Shall we their fond pageant see ? Lord , what fools these mortals be !
A rarer spirit never Did steer humanity , but you gods will give us Some faults to make us men . Caesar is touched .
Good Signor Leonato , are you come to meet your trouble ? The fashion of the world is to avoid cost , and you encounter it .
Well , praised be the gods for thy foulness ; sluttishness may come hereafter . But be it as it may be , I will marry thee ; and to that end I have been with Sir Oliver Martext , the vicar of the next village , who hath promised to meet me in this place of the forest and to couple us .
Give me your hand . Far off methinks I hear the beaten drum . Come , father , I 'll bestow you with a friend .
Indeed , it is a strange - disposed time . But men may construe things after their fashion , Clean from the purpose of the things themselves . Comes Caesar to the Capitol tomorrow ?
Who shall say me nay ?
Four of which you please .
Nay , but , Ophelia --
No , I 'll be sworn , I make as good use of it as many a man doth of a death's-head or a memento mori . I never see thy face but I think upon hellfire and Dives that lived in purple , for there he is in his robes , burning , burning . If thou wert any way given to virtue , I would swear by thy face . My oath should be " By this fire , that 's God 's angel . " But thou art altogether given over , and wert indeed , but for the light in thy face , the son of utter darkness . When thou rannest up Gadshill in the night to catch my horse , if I did not think thou hadst been an ignis fatuus , or a ball of wildfire , there 's no purchase in money . O , thou art a perpetual triumph , an everlasting bonfire - light ! Thou hast saved me a thousand marks in links and torches , walking with thee in the night betwixt tavern and tavern : but the sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap at the dearest chandler 's in Europe . I have maintained that salamander of yours with fire any time this two and thirty years , God reward me for it .
Fill till the cup be hid .
Nay , then , Do what thou canst , I will not go today , No , nor tomorrow , not till I please myself . The door is open , sir . There lies your way . You may be jogging whiles your boots are green . For me , I 'll not be gone till I please myself . ' Tis like you 'll prove a jolly surly groom , That take it on you at the first so roundly .
It is so indeed . He is no less than a stuffed man . But for the stuffing -- well , we are all mortal .
That 's a fault that water will mend .
Nor heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight . Thrice hath Calphurnia in her sleep cried out , " Help , ho ! They murder Caesar ! " --Who 's within ?
Talk not , Signior Gremio . I say he shall go to prison .
I prithee , who doth he trot withal ?
And turns the sun to shade . Alas , alas , Witness my son , now in the shade of death , Whose bright out - shining beams thy cloudy wrath Hath in eternal darkness folded up . Your aerie buildeth in our aerie 's nest . O God , that seest it , do not suffer it ! As it was won with blood , lost be it so .
Spake you with him ?
If your honor judge it meet , I will place you where you shall hear us confer of this and by an auricular assurance have your satisfaction -- and that without any further delay than this very evening .
I can write very like my lady your niece : on a forgotten matter we can hardly make distinction of our hands .
Go , go , you question with a wicked tongue .
Not only , sir , this your all - licensed fool , But other of your insolent retinue Do hourly carp and quarrel , breaking forth In rank and not - to - be - endured riots . Sir , I had thought by making this well known unto you To have found a safe redress , but now grow fearful By what yourself too late have spoke and done That you protect this course and put it on By your allowance -- which if you should , the fault Would not 'scape censure , nor the redresses sleep Which in the tender of a wholesome weal Might in their working do you that offense ,
I did not give the lie . Out o ' your wits and hearing too ? A pox o ' your bottle ! This can sack and drinking do . A murrain on your monster , and the devil take your fingers !
And be all traitors that do so ?
To be Count Malvolio !
It is but change , Titinius , for Octavius Is overthrown by noble Brutus ' power , As Cassius ' legions are by Antony .
Ev'n as your horse bears your praises -- who would trot as well were some of your brags dismounted .
Nor I , my lord .
The night has been unruly . Where we lay , Our chimneys were blown down and , as they say , Lamentings heard i ' th ' air , strange screams of death , And prophesying with accents terrible Of dire combustion and confused events New hatched to the woeful time . The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night . Some say the Earth Was feverous and did shake .
Now , Antony , our hopes are answered . You said the enemy would not come down But keep the hills and upper regions . It proves not so . Their battles are at hand . They mean to warn us at Philippi here , Answering before we do demand of them .
He lies not like the living . O my heart !
Send for money , knight . If thou hast her not i ' the end , call me " Cut . "
How goes it now ? He looks gentler than he did .
Brother , we shall . --Go , uncle Exeter , And brother Clarence , and you , brother Gloucester , Warwick and Huntingdon , go with the king And take with you free power to ratify , Augment , or alter , as your wisdoms best Shall see advantageable for our dignity , Anything in or out of our demands ,
My father Capulet will have it so , And I am nothing slow to slack his haste .
A contract of true love to celebrate , And some donation freely to estate On the blessed lovers .
Discuss unto me : art thou officer or art thou base , common , and popular ?
I say the earth did shake when I was born .
O Antony , O thou Arabian bird !
Ay , go your ways , go your ways . I knew what you would prove . My friends told me as much , and I thought no less . That flattering tongue of yours won me . ' Tis but one cast away , and so , come , death . Two o'clock is your hour ?
O , lady , lady , shame would have it hid .
Shadow will serve for summer . Prick him , for we have a number of shadows to fill up the muster book .
Did he confess it ?
Take comfort . He no more shall see my face . Lysander and myself will fly this place . Before the time I did Lysander see Seemed Athens as a paradise to me . Oh , then , what graces in my love do dwell , That he hath turned a heaven unto a hell !
How long within this wood intend you stay ?
You can play no part but Pyramus . For Pyramus is a sweet-faced man , a proper man as one shall see in a summer 's day , a most lovely , gentlemanlike man . Therefore you must needs play Pyramus .
I pray you , sir , my ring or else the chain . I hope you do not mean to cheat me so .
Is ' t come to this ? In faith , hath not the world one man but he will wear his cap with suspicion ? Shall I never see a bachelor of three-score again ? Go to , i ' faith , an thou wilt needs thrust thy neck into a yoke , wear the print of it , and sigh away Sundays . Look , Don Pedro is returned to seek you .
Let 's beat him before his whore .
They vanished strangely .
Sure wit , follow me this jest now till thou hast worn out thy pump , that when the single sole of it is worn , the jest may remain , after the wearing solely singular .
What treasure , uncle ?
' Tis a villain , sir , I do not love to look on .
And I , my royal sovereign .
True , my good boy . --Come , bring us to this hovel .
I am glad to see you well . -- Horatio ? Or I do forget myself ?
With lawyers in the vacation , for they sleep between term and term , and then they perceive not how time moves .
It is a reeling world indeed , my lord , And I believe will never stand upright Till Richard wear the garland of the realm .
I cannot blame him . At my nativity The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes , Of burning cressets , and at my birth The frame and huge foundation of the earth Shaked like a coward .
What , have you lost your wits ?
Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty ?
Out , fool ! I forgive thee for a witch .
Be assured you may .
You lack the season of all natures , sleep .
He shall do this , or else I do recant The pardon that I late pronounced here .
They shouted thrice . What was the last cry for ?
When holy Harry died , and my sweet son .
Come with my lady hither .
As young as I am , I have observed these three swashers . I am boy to them all three , but all they three , though they would serve me , could not be man to me . For indeed three such antics do not amount to a man : for Bardolph , he is white - livered and red - faced , by the means whereof he faces it out but fights not ; for Pistol , he hath a killing tongue and a quiet sword , by the means whereof he breaks words and keeps whole weapons ; for Nym , he hath heard that men of few words are the best men , and therefore he scorns to say his prayers , lest he should be thought a coward , but his few bad words are matched with as few good deeds , for he never broke any man 's head but his own , and that was against a post when he was drunk . They will steal anything and call it purchase . Bardolph stole a lute case , bore it twelve leagues , and sold it for three halfpence . Nym and Bardolph are sworn brothers in filching , and in Calais they stole a fire shovel . I knew by that piece of service the men would carry coals . They would have me as familiar with men 's pockets as their gloves or their handkerchers , which makes much against my manhood , if I should take from another 's pocket to put into mine , for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs . I must leave them and seek some better service . Their villainy goes against my weak stomach , and therefore I must cast it up .
Nay , blush not , Cleopatra . I approve Your wisdom in the deed .
Is thy name Wart ?
Near Birnam Wood Shall we well meet them ; that way are they coming .
Give me thy hand . Who 's there ?
Wilt break my heart ?
Ancient damnation ! O most wicked fiend ! Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn , Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue Which she hath praised him with above compare So many thousand times ? Go , counselor . Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain . I 'll to the friar to know his remedy . If all else fail , myself have power to die .
Well have we done , thrice - valiant countrymen , But all' s not done . Yet keep the French the field .
He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt . He knows not the stop . A good moral , my lord : it is not enough to speak , but to speak true .
It is even so .
That , sir , which I will not report after her .
Be ruled . You shall not go .
Mine , Hal , mine .
So thrive my soul --
Gentlewoman , my lady calls .
Never was monarch better feared and loved Than is your Majesty . There 's not , I think , a subject That sits in heart - grief and uneasiness Under the sweet shade of your government .
Hark , Petruchio : she says she 'll see thee hanged first .
Be patient , princes . You do know these fits Are with his Highness very ordinary . Stand from him , give him air . He 'll straight be well .
Ay , sir , and wherefore , for they say every why hath a wherefore .
If it were done when ' tis done , then ' twere well It were done quickly . If the assassination Could trammel up the consequence , and catch With his surcease success ; that but this blow Might be the be-all and the end-all here , But here , upon this bank and shoal of time , We 'd jump the life to come . But in these cases We still have judgment here , that we but teach Bloody instructions , which , being taught , return To plague th ' inventor : this even-handed justice Commends the ingredients of our poisoned chalice To our own lips . He 's here in double trust : First , as I am his kinsman and his subject , Strong both against the deed ; then , as his host , Who should against his murderer shut the door , Not bear the knife myself . Besides , this Duncan Hath borne his faculties so meek , hath been So clear in his great office , that his virtues Will plead like angels , trumpet - tongued , against The deep damnation of his taking - off; And pity , like a naked newborn babe , Striding the blast , or heaven 's cherubim , horsed Upon the sightless couriers of the air , Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye , That tears shall drown the wind . I have no spur To prick the sides of my intent , but only Vaulting ambition , which o'erleaps itself And falls on th ' other .
Bear 'st thou her face in mind ? Is ' t long or round ?
O God ! --O Nurse , how shall this be prevented ? My husband is on earth , my faith in heaven . How shall that faith return again to earth , Unless that husband send it me from heaven By leaving earth ? Comfort me . Counsel me . -- Alack , alack , that heaven should practice stratagems Upon so soft a subject as myself . -- What sayst thou ? Hast thou not a word of joy ? Some comfort , Nurse .
And may not young men die as well as old ?
The Queen , my lord , the Queen .
It is the prince of palfreys . His neigh is like the bidding of a monarch , and his countenance enforces homage .
Hang him , Jack ! Come , we 'll in here , tarry for the mourners and stay dinner .
Tell us where ' tis , that we may take it thence And bear it to the chapel .
To him again . Tell him he wears the rose Of youth upon him , from which the world should note Something particular . His coin , ships , legions , May be a coward 's , whose ministers would prevail Under the service of a child as soon As i ' th ' command of Caesar . I dare him therefore To lay his gay caparisons apart And answer me declined , sword against sword , Ourselves alone . I 'll write it . Follow me .
See better , Lear , and let me still remain The true blank of thine eye .
Sauf votre honneur , " d' elbow . "
I have full cause of weeping , but this heart Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws , Or ere I 'll weep . --O Fool , I shall go mad !
Noble Earl , I bring you certain news from Shrewsbury .
Come , brother John . Full bravely hast thou fleshed Thy maiden sword .
Bid farewell to your sisters .
Away , begone . The sport is at the best .
Sir Topas the curate , who comes to visit Malvolio the lunatic .
Good Captain Peesell , be quiet . ' Tis very late , i ' faith . I beseek you now , aggravate your choler .
Come , then , for with a wound I must be cured . Draw that thy honest sword , which thou hast worn Most useful for thy country .
Sir , this is the house . Please it you that I call ?
Not the ill wind which blows no man to good . Sweet knight , thou art now one of the greatest men in this realm .
What 's your gracious pleasure ?
I ' faith , or I either ?
I yet beseech your majesty , If for I want that glib and oily art To speak and purpose not -- since what I well intend , I 'll do ' t before I speak -- that you make known It is no vicious blot , murder , or foulness , No unchaste action or dishonored step That hath deprived me of your grace and favor , But even for want of that for which I am richer : A still - soliciting eye and such a tongue As I am glad I have not , though not to have it Hath lost me in your liking .
You do me wrong to take me out o ' th ' grave . Thou art a soul in bliss , but I am bound Upon a wheel of fire , that mine own tears Do scald like molten lead .
Heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art .
My affections Are then most humble . I have no ambition To see a goodlier man .
By my heel , I care not .
Of what your reverence shall incite us to . Therefore take heed how you impawn our person , How you awake our sleeping sword of war . We charge you in the name of God , take heed , For never two such kingdoms did contend Without much fall of blood , whose guiltless drops Are every one a woe , a sore complaint ' Gainst him whose wrong gives edge unto the swords That make such waste in brief mortality . Under this conjuration , speak , my lord , For we will hear , note , and believe in heart That what you speak is in your conscience washed As pure as sin with baptism .
As if it had lungs , and rotten ones .
Sir , you say well , and well you do conceive . And since you do profess to be a suitor , You must , as we do , gratify this gentleman , To whom we all rest generally beholding .
He shall to Parthia . Be it art or hap , He hath spoken true . The very dice obey him , And in our sports my better cunning faints Under his chance . If we draw lots , he speeds . His cocks do win the battle still of mine When it is all to naught , and his quails ever Beat mine , inhooped , at odds . I will to Egypt . And though I make this marriage for my peace , I ' th ' East my pleasure lies .
If it be found so , some will dear abide it .
Th ' ambassadors from Norway , my good lord , Are joyfully returned .
We have , sir .
Save thee , Curan .
This is some fellow , Who , having been praised for bluntness , doth affect A saucy roughness and constrains the garb Quite from his nature . He cannot flatter , he . An honest mind and plain , he must speak truth . An they will take it , so . If not , he 's plain . These kind of knaves I know , which in this plainness Harbor more craft and more corrupter ends Than twenty silly - ducking observants That stretch their duties nicely .
How long hath she been thus ?
Romeo slew him ; he slew Mercutio . Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe ?
Give me your hand , sir .
Alas , he faints ! O Cassio , Cassio , Cassio !
' Tis even so . Hero and Margaret have by this played their parts with Beatrice , and then the two bears will not bite one another when they meet .
Where shall we take a purse tomorrow , Jack ?
Peace , ho , for shame ! Confusion 's cure lives not In these confusions . Heaven and yourself Had part in this fair maid . Now heaven hath all ,
Go , my lord , And let our army be discharged too .
Revolted Mortimer ! He never did fall off , my sovereign liege , But by the chance of war . To prove that true Needs no more but one tongue for all those wounds , Those mouthed wounds , which valiantly he took When on the gentle Severn 's sedgy bank In single opposition hand to hand He did confound the best part of an hour In changing hardiment with great Glendower . Three times they breathed , and three times did they drink , Upon agreement , of swift Severn 's flood , Who then , affrighted with their bloody looks , Ran fearfully among the trembling reeds And hid his crisp head in the hollow bank , Bloodstained with these valiant combatants . Never did bare and rotten policy Color her working with such deadly wounds , Nor could the noble Mortimer Receive so many , and all willingly . Then let not him be slandered with revolt .
Against my brother Lucius ?
Past all expressing . It is very meet The Lord Bassanio live an upright life , For having such a blessing in his lady , He finds the joys of heaven here on earth . And if on earth he do not merit it , In reason he should never come to heaven . Why , if two gods should play some heavenly match And on the wager lay two earthly women , And Portia one , there must be something else Pawned with the other , for the poor rude world Hath not her fellow .
Good friends , sweet friends ! Let me not stir you up To such a sudden flood of mutiny . They that have done this deed are honorable . What private griefs they have , alas , I know not , That made them do it . They are wise and honorable , And will , no doubt , with reasons answer you . I come not , friends , to steal away your hearts . I am no orator , as Brutus is , But , as you know me all , a plain blunt man That love my friend . And that they know full well That gave me public leave to speak of him . For I have neither wit nor words nor worth , Action nor utterance nor the power of speech , To stir men 's blood . I only speak right on . I tell you that which you yourselves do know , Show you sweet Caesar 's wounds , poor poor dumb mouths , And bid them speak for me . But were I Brutus , And Brutus Antony , there were an Antony Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue In every wound of Caesar that should move The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny .
Is not this man jealous ?
I now perceive it was not altogether your brother 's evil disposition made him seek his death , but a provoking merit set awork by a reprovable badness in himself .
Thou elvish-marked , abortive , rooting hog , Thou that wast sealed in thy nativity The slave of nature and the son of hell , Thou slander of thy heavy mother 's womb , Thou loathed issue of thy father 's loins , Thou rag of honor , thou detested --
Well , if you were but an inch of fortune better than I , where would you choose it ?
Once more unto the breach , dear friends , once more , Or close the wall up with our English dead ! In peace there 's nothing so becomes a man As modest stillness and humility , But when the blast of war blows in our ears , Then imitate the action of the tiger : Stiffen the sinews , summon up the blood , Disguise fair nature with hard - favored rage , Then lend the eye a terrible aspect , Let pry through the portage of the head Like the brass cannon , let the brow o'erwhelm it As fearfully as doth a galled rock O ' erhang and jutty his confounded base , Swilled with the wild and wasteful ocean . Now set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide , Hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit To his full height . On , on , you noblest English , Whose blood is fet from fathers of war - proof , Fathers that , like so many Alexanders , Have in these parts from morn till even fought And sheathed their swords for lack of argument . Dishonor not your mothers . Now attest That those whom you called fathers did beget you . Be copy now to men of grosser blood , And teach them how to war . And you , good yeoman , Whose limbs were made in England , show us here The mettle of your pasture . Let us swear That you are worth your breeding , which I doubt not ,
Well said , Master Parson .
Thy heart is big . Get thee apart and weep . Passion , I see , is catching , for mine eyes , Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine , Began to water . Is thy master coming ?
Ask me not what I know .
Excusez-moi , Alice . Ecoutez : " de hand , de fingres , de nails , de arma , de bilbow . "
An you do not make him hanged among you , the gallows shall have wrong .
What is your name ?
Five hundred ducats , villain , for a rope ?
You may be pleased to catch at mine intent By what did here befall me . Your wife and brother Made wars upon me , and their contestation Was theme for you . You were the word of war .
I am changed .
O love , dispatch all business and be gone !
Five year ! By ' r lady , a long lease for the clinking of pewter ! But , Francis , darest thou be so valiant as to play the coward with thy indenture , and show it a fair pair of heels , and run from it ?
I cannot be so partial , Goneril , To the great love I bear you --
What , do you tremble ? Are you all afraid ? Alas , I blame you not , for you are mortal , And mortal eyes cannot endure the devil . -- Avaunt , thou dreadful minister of hell . Thou hadst but power over his mortal body ; His soul thou canst not have . Therefore begone .
I pray thee , overname them . And as thou namest them , I will describe them . And according to my description , level at my affection .
Let 's present him to the duke like a Roman conqueror . And it would do well to set the deer 's horns upon his head for a branch of victory . --Have you no song , forester , for this purpose ?
Ay , ay .
Nell . Repent at idle times as thou mayest , and so , farewell . Thine by yea and no , which is as much as to say , as thou usest him , Jack Falstaff with my familiars , John with my brothers and sisters , and Sir John with all Europe .
Stand away , Captain Gower . I will give treason his payment into plows , I warrant you .
I pledge your Grace , and if you knew what pains I have bestowed to breed this present peace , You would drink freely . But my love to you Shall show itself more openly hereafter .
I humbly take my leave .
Let me not understand you , then ; speak it in Welsh .
Ay , madam .
Then should you be nothing but musical , for you are altogether governed by humors . Lie still , you thief , and hear the lady sing in Welsh .
Shall I prick him down , Sir John ?
To thee and thine hereditary ever Remain this ample third of our fair kingdom , No less in space , validity , and pleasure Than that conferred on Goneril . --But now , our joy , Although our last and least , to whose young love The vines of France and milk of Burgundy Strive to be interessed . What can you say to draw A third more opulent than your sisters ? Speak .
Thou liest , abhorred tyrant . With my sword I 'll prove the lie thou speak'st .
Sweet Gertrude , leave us too , For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither , That he , as ' twere by accident , may here Affront Ophelia . Her father and myself Will so bestow ourselves that , seeing unseen , We may of their encounter frankly judge , And gather by him , as he is behaved , If ' t be the affliction of his love or no That thus he suffers for .
Too old by heaven . Let still the woman take An elder than herself . So wears she to him , So sways she level in her husband 's heart . For , boy , however we do praise ourselves , Our fancies are more giddy and unfirm , More longing , wavering , sooner lost and worn , Than women 's are .
That 's as we list to grace him . Methinks our pleasure might have been demanded Ere you had spoke so far . He led our powers , Bore the commission of my place and person -- The which immediacy may well stand up And call itself your brother .
That .
Welcome , gentlemen ! Ladies that have their toes Ah , my mistresses ! Which of you all Unplagued with corns will walk a bout with you . -- Will now deny to dance ? She that makes dainty , She , I 'll swear , hath corns . Am I come near ye now?- - Welcome , gentlemen ! I have seen the day That I have worn a visor and could tell A whispering tale in a fair lady 's ear Such as would please . ' Tis gone , ' tis gone , ' tis gone . -- You are welcome , gentlemen . --Come , musicians , play . A hall , a hall , give room ! --And foot it , girls . -- More light , you knaves ! And turn the tables up , And quench the fire . The room is grown too hot . -- Ah , sirrah , this unlooked-for sport comes well . -- Nay , sit , nay , sit , good cousin Capulet , For you and I are past our dancing days . How long is ' t now since last yourself and I Were in a mask ?
Who ? The most exquisite Claudio ?
My most dear lord !
Thou know 'st the mask of night is on my face , Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek For that which thou hast heard me speak tonight . Fain would I dwell on form . Fain , fain deny What I have spoke . But farewell compliment ! Dost thou love me ? I know thou wilt say " ay , " And I will take thy word . Yet if thou swear 'st Thou mayst prove false . At lovers ' perjuries , They say , Jove laughs . O gentle Romeo , If thou dost love , pronounce it faithfully . Or if thou think 'st I am too quickly won , I 'll frown and be perverse and say thee nay , So thou wilt woo . But else , not for the world . In truth , fair Montague , I am too fond , And therefore thou mayst think my ' havior light . But trust me , gentleman , I 'll prove more true Than those that have more coying to be strange . I should have been more strange , I must confess , But that thou overheard'st , ere I was ' ware , My true love 's passion . Therefore pardon me , And not impute this yielding to light love , Which the dark night hath so discovered .
Doubt not , my lord , they shall be well opposed .
Come hither , friend . Where is the king my master ?
I was adored once too .
I am a fool To weep at what I am glad of .
Truly , the more to blame he . We were Christians eno ' before , e' en as many as could well live one by another . This making Christians will raise the price of hogs . If we grow all to be pork - eaters , we shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money .
No.
I pray you all , stand up .
Call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin .
I have but with a cursitory eye O ' erglanced the articles . Pleaseth your Grace To appoint some of your council presently To sit with us once more with better heed To resurvey them , we will suddenly Pass our accept and peremptory answer .
I would I were senseless , sir , that I might not feel your blows .
Helen , to you our minds we will unfold . Tomorrow night when Phoebe doth behold Her silver visage in the watery glass , Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass , Through Athens ' gates have we devised to steal .
If this were played upon a stage now , I could condemn it as an improbable fiction .
You will take little delight in it , I can tell you , there is such odds in the man . In pity of the challenger 's youth , I would fain dissuade him , but he will not be entreated . Speak to him , ladies ; see if you can move him .
You have said , sir . To see this age ! A sentence is but a cheveril glove to a good wit . How quickly the wrong side may be turned outward !
Eros , Wouldst thou be windowed in great Rome and see Thy master thus with pleached arms , bending down His corrigible neck , his face subdued To penetrative shame , whilst the wheeled seat Of fortunate Caesar , drawn before him , branded His baseness that ensued ?
The name of Cassius honors this corruption , And chastisement doth therefore hide his head .
Nay , hear them , Antony . Fulvia perchance is angry . Or who knows If the scarce - bearded Caesar have not sent His powerful mandate to you , " Do this , or this . Take in that kingdom , and enfranchise that . Perform ' t , or else we damn thee . "
Poor Clarence did forsake his father Warwick , Ay , and forswore himself -- which Jesu pardon ! --
Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France ?
These are the forgeries of jealousy . And never , since the middle summer 's spring , Met we on hill , in dale , forest , or mead , By paved fountain , or by rushy brook , Or in the beached margent of the sea , To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind , But with thy brawls thou hast disturbed our sport . Therefore the winds , piping to us in vain , As in revenge , have sucked up from the sea Contagious fogs , which falling in the land Have every pelting river made so proud That they have overborne their continents . The ox hath therefore stretched his yoke in vain , The ploughman lost his sweat , and the green corn Hath rotted ere his youth attained a beard . The fold stands empty in the drowned field , And crows are fatted with the murrain flock . The nine - men's-morris is filled up with mud , And the quaint mazes in the wanton green For lack of tread are undistinguishable . The human mortals want their winter here . No night is now with hymn or carol blessed . Therefore the moon , the governess of floods , Pale in her anger , washes all the air , That rheumatic diseases do abound . And thorough this distemperature we see The seasons alter : hoary - headed frosts Fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose , And on old Hiems ' thin and icy crown An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds Is , as in mockery , set . The spring , the summer , The childing autumn , angry winter change Their wonted liveries , and the mazed world , By their increase , now knows not which is which . And this same progeny of evils comes From our debate , from our dissension . We are their parents and original .
Speak to me . I shall answer for her . Your will ?
Here , sir .
Marry , thou dost wrong me , thou dissembler , thou . Nay , never lay thy hand upon thy sword . I fear thee not .
Then but forbear your food a little while Whiles , like a doe , I go to find my fawn And give it food . There is an old poor man Who after me hath many a weary step Limped in pure love . Till he be first sufficed , Oppressed with two weak evils , age and hunger , I will not touch a bit .
Now , sir , thought is free . I pray you , bring your hand to the buttery - bar and let it drink .
Ay , dread Queen .
From Hamlet ? Who brought them ?
That 's fouler .
Oh , banish me , my lord , but kill me not !
I do not know . Friends all but now , even now , In quarter , and in terms like bride and groom Divesting them for bed . And then , but now , As if some planet had unwitted men ,
This kindness will I show . Go with me to a notary , seal me there Your single bond , and -- in a merry sport -- If you repay me not on such a day , In such a place , such sum or sums as are Expressed in the condition , let the forfeit Be nominated for an equal pound Of your fair flesh , to be cut off and taken In what part of your body pleaseth me .
We shall know by this fellow . The players cannot keep counsel . They 'll tell all .
Now go to the door and stay there till we call .
Then must the Jew be merciful .
Doth any name particular belong Unto the lodging where I first did swoon ?
Ay , madam , twenty several messengers . Why do you send so thick ?
Why , but you are now well enough . How came you thus recovered ?
Sport ? Of what color ?
There 's a dish of leather - coats for you .
I called thee then " vain flourish of my fortune . " I called thee then poor shadow , " painted queen , " The presentation of but what I was , The flattering index of a direful pageant , One heaved a - high , to be hurled down below , A mother only mocked with two fair babes , A dream of what thou wast , a garish flag To be the aim of every dangerous shot , A sign of dignity , a breath , a bubble , A queen in jest , only to fill the scene . Where is thy husband now ? Where be thy brothers ? Where are thy two sons ? Wherein dost thou joy ? Who sues and kneels and says " God save the queen ? " Where be the bending peers that flattered thee ? Where be the thronging troops that followed thee ? Decline all this , and see what now thou art : For happy wife , a most distressed widow ; For joyful mother , one that wails the name ; For queen , a very caitiff crowned with care ; For she that scorned at me , now scorned of me ; For she being feared of all , now fearing one ; For she commanding all , obeyed of none . Thus hath the course of justice whirled about And left thee but a very prey to time , Having no more but thought of what thou wast To torture thee the more , being what thou art . Thou didst usurp my place , and dost thou not Usurp the just proportion of my sorrow ? Now thy proud neck bears half my burdened yoke , From which even here I slip my weary head And leave the burthen of it all on thee . Farewell , York 's wife , and queen of sad mischance . These English woes will make me smile in France .
' Tis but thy name that is my enemy . Thou art thyself , though not a Montague . What 's Montague ? It is nor hand , nor foot , Nor arm , nor face , nor any other part Belonging to a man . O , be some other name ! What 's in a name ? That which we call a rose By any other word would smell as sweet . So Romeo would , were he not Romeo called , Retain that dear perfection which he owes Without that title . Romeo , doff thy name , And for that name , which is no part of thee Take all myself .
Niggard of question , but of our demands Most free in his reply .
Well then , now Have you considered of my speeches ? Know That it was he , in the times past , which held you So under fortune , which you thought had been Our innocent self . This I made good to you In our last conference , passed in probation with you , How you were borne in hand , how crossed , the instruments , Who wrought with them , and all things else that might To half a soul and to a notion crazed Say , " Thus did Banquo . "
Nay , he rubs himself with civet . Can you smell him out by that ?
Poins !
Out , treacherous villain ! Thou call' st on him that hates thee . It was he That made the overture of thy treasons to us , Who is too good to pity thee .
But then I saw no harm , and then I heard Each syllable that breath made up between them .
Of all mad matches never was the like .
Every one that does so is a traitor and must be hanged .
Speak you so gently ? Pardon me , I pray you . I thought that all things had been savage here , And therefore put I on the countenance Of stern commandment . But whate'er you are That in this desert inaccessible , Under the shade of melancholy boughs , Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time , If ever you have looked on better days , If ever been where bells have knolled to church , If ever sat at any good man 's feast , If ever from your eyelids wiped a tear And know what ' tis to pity and be pitied , Let gentleness my strong enforcement be , In the which hope I blush and hide my sword .
You are well encountered here , my cousin Mowbray . -- Good day to you , gentle Lord Archbishop , -- And so to you , Lord Hastings , and to all . -- My Lord of York , it better showed with you When that your flock , assembled by the bell , Encircled you to hear with reverence Your exposition on the holy text Than now to see you here , an iron man talking , Cheering a rout of rebels with your drum , Turning the word to sword , and life to death . That man that sits within a monarch 's heart And ripens in the sunshine of his favor , Would he abuse the countenance of the King , Alack , what mischiefs might he set abroach In shadow of such greatness ! With you , Lord Bishop ,
O , bid me leap , rather than marry Paris , From off the battlements of yonder tower ; Or walk in thievish ways ; or bid me lurk Where serpents are ; chain me with roaring bears ; Or shut me nightly in a charnel house , O ' ercovered quite with dead men 's rattling bones , With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls ; Or bid me go into a new - made grave And hide me with a dead man in his shroud -- Things that , to hear them told , have made me tremble -- And I will do it without fear or doubt , To live an unstained wife to my sweet love .
Know , my long lord , The marquess Dorset , as I hear , is fled To Richmond , in the parts where he abides .
I pray thee , give it me . I know a bank where the wild thyme blows , Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows , Quite overcanopied with luscious woodbine , With sweet musk roses and with eglantine .
Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood , Scratching her legs that one shall swear she bleeds , And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep , So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn .
I like this fair proceeding of the King 's . He hath intent his wonted followers Shall all be very well provided for , But all are banished till their conversations Appear more wise and modest to the world .
As I told thee before , I am subject to a tyrant , a sorcerer that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island .
Have you done yet ?
Where is the villain , Edmund ?
What is your will , sir , that you send for me ?
Why should he stay , whom love doth press to go ?
It is my duty , sir .
At Berkley Castle .
He has no children . All my pretty ones ? Did you say all ? O hell - kite ! All ? What , all my pretty chickens and their dam At one fell swoop ?
When ever yet was your appeal denied ? Wherein have you been galled by the King ? What peer hath been suborned to grate on you , That you should seal this lawless bloody book Of forged rebellion with a seal divine And consecrate commotion 's bitter edge ?
Shall dunghill curs confront the Helicons , And shall good news be baffled ? Then , Pistol , lay thy head in Furies ' lap .
Jailer , look to him . Tell not me of mercy . This is the fool that lent out money gratis . Jailer , look to him .
Who is to be buried in ' t ?
There 's no time for a man to recover his hair that grows bald by nature .
This is a dear manikin to you , Sir Toby .
Enobarbus , Antony Hath after thee sent all thy treasure , with His bounty overplus . The messenger Came on my guard , and at thy tent is now Unloading of his mules .
Here , my lord .
We 'll burn the house of Brutus .
May I never To this good purpose , that so fairly shows , Dream of impediment ! Let me have thy hand Further this act of grace , and from this hour The heart of brothers govern in our loves And sway our great designs !
Mark Antony , shall we give sign of battle ?
Go to , away .
She says your Worship means to make a puppet of her .
Yes , faith , my lord .
Fie , cousin Percy , how you cross my father !
My lord of York will still be cross in talk . Uncle , your Grace knows how to bear with him .
Now , I prithee , daughter , do not make me mad . I will not trouble thee , my child . Farewell . We 'll no more meet , no more see one another . But yet thou art my flesh , my blood , my daughter -- Or rather a disease that 's in my flesh , Which I must needs call mine . Thou art a boil , A plague - sore or embossed carbuncle In my corrupted blood . But I 'll not chide thee . Let shame come when it will . I do not call it .
Conceit upon her father .
Most like . It harrows me with fear and wonder .
Thou art perfect .
Then have at you with my wit . I will dry - beat you with an iron wit and put up my iron dagger . Answer me like men .
It will make you melancholy , Monsieur Jaques .
And do you , Gratiano , mean good faith ?
I warrant your honor .
Thou liest , thou jesting monkey , thou ! I would my valiant master would destroy thee . I do not lie .
Or rather bottomless , that as fast as you pour affection in , it runs out .
I pray you , commend me to Mistress Squash , your mother , and to Master Peascod , your father . Good Master Peaseblossom , I shall desire you of more acquaintance too . -- Your name , I beseech you , sir ?
Was ' t you he rescued ?
Stand !
Within the infant rind of this small flower Poison hath residence and medicine power . For this , being smelt , with that part cheers each part ; Being tasted , stays all senses with the heart . Two such opposed kings encamp them still , In man as well as herbs -- grace and rude will .
This , Decius Brutus .
Come , Sir Andrew , there 's no remedy . The gentleman will , for his honor 's sake , have one bout with you . He cannot by the duello avoid it . But he has promised me , as he is a gentleman and a soldier , he will not hurt you . Come on , to ' t .
Some villain hath done me wrong .
Thou speak 'st as if I would deny my name .
I must leave you .
The devil take thy soul !
So all .
What mean your graces ? Good my friends , consider You are my guests . Do me no foul play , friends .
Why , I were best to cut my left hand off And swear I lost the ring defending it .
What 's your highness ' pleasure ?
Ay , good fool .
And what 's her history ?
I 'll tell thee ere thou ask it me again . I have been feasting with mine enemy , Where on a sudden one hath wounded me , That 's by me wounded . Both our remedies Within thy help and holy physic lies . I bear no hatred , blessed man , for , lo , My intercession likewise steads my foe .
Very well , my lord .
Or say , sweet love , what thou desirest to eat .
I will , captain . Farewell .
No , lady .
Well too .
How know you he loves her ?
Make up to Clifton . I 'll to Sir Nicholas Gawsey .
And mine a hundred and forty .
Peace . --Who comes here ?
That I might sleep out this great gap of time My Antony is away .
Ah , Desdemona , away , away , away !
O , she that hath a heart of that fine frame To pay this debt of love but to a brother , How will she love , when the rich golden shaft Hath killed the flock of all affections else That live in her , when liver , brain , and heart , These sovereign thrones , are all supplied , and filled Her sweet perfections with one self king ! Away before me to sweet beds of flowers . Love thoughts lie rich when canopied with bowers .
Thou judgest false already : I mean thou shalt have the hanging of the thieves , and so become a rare hangman .
No harm , what more ?
Peace , you dull fool . I found them on a tree .
Come , brands , ho , firebrands . To Brutus ' , to Cassius ' , burn all . Some to Decius ' house and some to Casca 's . Some to Ligarius ' . Away , go !
Up and away ! Our soldiers stand full fairly for the day .
Oh , I have read it . It is heresy . Have you no more to say ?
If you go on thus , you will kill yourself , And ' tis not wisdom thus to second grief Against yourself .
God be wi ' you . Fare you well .
Biondello , what of that ?
This dream is all amiss interpreted . It was a vision fair and fortunate . Your statue spouting blood in many pipes , In which so many smiling Romans bathed , Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck Reviving blood , and that great men shall press For tinctures , stains , relics , and cognizance . This by Calphurnia 's dream is signified .
Did we , my lord ?
I had forgot thee --Oh , come in , Emilia . Soft , by and by . Let me the curtains draw . Where art thou ?
Speak lower , princes , for the King recovers .
Stand fast together , lest some friend of Caesar 's Should chance --
I have , and I will hold , the quondam Quickly For the only she , And -- pauca -- there 's enough . Go to .
That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird .
Will you dine with me tomorrow ?
I do , sir .
For three months , well .
What , talking with a priest , Lord Chamberlain ? Your friends at Pomfret , they do need the priest ; Your Honor hath no shriving work in hand .
What 's he that wishes so ? My cousin Westmoreland ? No , my fair cousin . If we are marked to die , we are enough To do our country loss ; and if to live , The fewer men , the greater share of honor . God 's will , I pray thee wish not one man more . By Jove , I am not covetous for gold Nor care I who doth feed upon my cost ; It yearns me not if men my garments wear ; Such outward things dwell not in my desires . But if it be a sin to covet honor , I am the most offending soul alive . No , faith , my coz , wish not a man from England . God 's peace , I would not lose so great an honor As one man more , methinks , would share from me , For the best hope I have . Oh , do not wish one more ! Rather proclaim it , Westmoreland , through my host , That he which hath no stomach to this fight , Let him depart . His passport shall be made , And crowns for convoy put into his purse . We would not die in that man 's company That fears his fellowship to die with us . This day is called the feast of Crispian . He that outlives this day and comes safe home , Will stand o ' tiptoe when the day is named And rouse him at the name of Crispian . He that shall see this day , and live old age , Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbors And say , " Tomorrow is Saint Crispian . " Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars , And say , " These wounds I had on Crispin 's day . "
Come hither , sir . Though it be honest , it is never good To bring bad news . Give to a gracious message An host of tongues , but let ill tidings tell Themselves when they be felt .
It is to be all made of faith and service , And so am I for Phoebe .
He did me kindness , sir , drew on my side , But in conclusion put strange speech upon me . I know not what ' twas but distraction .
My wind cooling my broth Would blow me to an ague when I thought What harm a wind too great at sea might do . I should not see the sandy hourglass run , But I should think of shallows and of flats And see my wealthy Andrew docked in sand , Vailing her high top lower than her ribs To kiss her burial . Should I go to church And see the holy edifice of stone And not bethink me straight of dangerous rocks , Which , touching but my gentle vessel 's side , Would scatter all her spices on the stream , Enrobe the roaring waters with my silks , And , in a word , but even now worth this , And now worth nothing ? Shall I have the thought To think on this , and shall I lack the thought That such a thing bechanced would make me sad ? But tell not me . I know Antonio Is sad to think upon his merchandise .
What is ' t , Ophelia , he hath said to you ?
Be of comfort . My father 's of a better nature , sir , Than he appears by speech . This is unwonted Which now came from him .
True ; who bears hard His brother 's death at Bristol , the Lord Scroop . I speak not this in estimation , As what I think might be , but what I know Is ruminated , plotted , and set down , And only stays but to behold the face Of that occasion that shall bring it on .
I did not think to draw my sword ' gainst Pompey , For he hath laid strange courtesies and great Of late upon me . I must thank him only , Lest my remembrance suffer ill report ; At heel of that , defy him .
Shut up your doors , my lord . ' Tis a wild night . My Regan counsels well . Come out o ' th ' storm .
I must catechise you for it , madonna . Good my mouse of virtue , answer me .
Of my kind uncle , that I know will give , And being but a toy , which is no grief to give .
Now cracks a noble heart . --Good night , sweet prince , And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest ! -- Why does the drum come hither ?
Oh , he 's returned , and as pleasant as ever he was .
Promise me life , and I 'll confess the truth .
Gloucester 's eyes ?
Deliver what you will ; I 'll say ' tis so .
The world 's a huge thing . It is a great price for a small vice .
Was the hope drunk Wherein you dressed yourself ? Hath it slept since ? And wakes it now , to look so green and pale At what it did so freely ? From this time Such I account thy love . Art thou afeard To be the same in thine own act and valor As thou art in desire ? Wouldst thou have that Which thou esteem 'st the ornament of life , And live a coward in thine own esteem , Letting " I dare not " wait upon " I would , " Like the poor cat i ' th ' adage ?
What is this same ?
Give me your hand , and let me feel your pulse .
What promise , chuck ?
What 's the matter ?
You have heard much .
I had forgot -- three months . You told me so . Well then , your bond , and let me see --But hear you , Methought you said you neither lend nor borrow Upon advantage .
Hear me , my lord . What need you five and twenty , ten , or five To follow in a house where twice so many Have a command to tend you ?
Good night , good doctor .
I have said too much unto a heart of stone And laid mine honor too unchary on ' t . There 's something in me that reproves my fault , But such a headstrong potent fault it is That it but mocks reproof .
My lord , this is my daughter here asleep . And this , Lysander . This Demetrius is . This Helena , old Nedar 's Helena . I wonder of their being here together .
O thou good Kent , how shall I live and work To match thy goodness ? My life will be too short , And every measure fail me .
Thus must I from the smoke into the smother , From tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother . But heavenly Rosalind !
So do we .
Thou canst not say I did it . Never shake Thy gory locks at me .
And what of him ? Did he take interest ?
I strike quickly , being moved .
My husband and my lord , my lord and husband , I am your wife in all obedience .
I will hear Brutus speak .
My poverty , but not my will , consents .
Will ' t please your Honor taste of these conserves ?
Mistress , how mean you that ?
Meantime I writ to Romeo , That he should hither come as this dire night , To help to take her from her borrowed grave , Being the time the potion 's force should cease . But he which bore my letter , Friar John , Was stayed by accident , and yesternight Returned my letter back . Then all alone At the prefixed hour of her waking Came I to take her from her kindred 's vault , Meaning to keep her closely at my cell Till I conveniently could send to Romeo , But when I came , some minute ere the time Of her awakening , here untimely lay The noble Paris and true Romeo dead . She wakes , and I entreated her come forth , And bear this work of heaven with patience . But then a noise did scare me from the tomb , And she , too desperate , would not go with me , But , as it seems , did violence on herself . All this I know , and to the marriage Her Nurse is privy . And if aught in this Miscarried by my fault , let my old life Be sacrificed some hour before his time Unto the rigor of severest law .
I know where I will wear this dagger then . Cassius from bondage will deliver Cassius . Therein , ye gods , you make the weak most strong . Therein , ye gods , you tyrants do defeat . Nor stony tower , nor walls of beaten brass , Nor airless dungeon , nor strong links of iron Can be retentive to the strength of spirit . But life , being weary of these worldly bars , Never lacks power to dismiss itself . If I know this , know all the world besides , That part of tyranny that I do bear I can shake off at pleasure .
Fulvia is dead .
O , find him ! Give this ring to my true knight , And bid him come to take his last farewell .
Messala !
A heavy sight !
Tut , she 's a lamb , a dove , a fool to him ! I 'll tell you , Sir Lucentio : when the priest Should ask if Katherine should be his wife , " Ay , by gogs wouns ! " quoth he , and swore so loud That , all amazed , the priest let fall the book , And as he stooped again to take it up , The mad - brained bridegroom took him such a cuff That down fell priest and book , and book and priest . " Now take them up , " quoth he , " if any list . "
Something from Cyprus as I may divine . It is a business of some heat . The galleys Have sent a dozen sequent messengers This very night at one another 's heels , And many of the consuls , raised and met , Are at the Duke 's already . You have been hotly called for . When being not at your lodging to be found The Senate hath sent about three several guests To search you out .
We have cause to be glad that matters are so well digested . You stayed well by ' t in Egypt .
' Tis all one . I will show myself a tyrant . When I have fought with the men , I will be civil with the maids . I will cut off their heads .
I shall serve you , sir , Truly , however else .
There 's a bargain made . Now know you , Casca , I have moved already Some certain of the noblest - minded Romans To undergo with me an enterprise Of honorable - dangerous consequence . And I do know by this they stay for me In Pompey 's porch . For now , this fearful night , There is no stir or walking in the streets , And the complexion of the element In favor 's like the work we have in hand , Most bloody , fiery , and most terrible .
And Cassius too .
Thou bleed 'st apace .
I fear he will . Here Catesby comes again .
Does any here know me ? Why , this is not Lear . Doth Lear walk thus ? Speak thus ? Where are his eyes ? Either his notion weakens , or his discernings Are lethargied . Ha , sleeping or waking ? Sure , ' tis not so . Who is it that can tell me who I am ?
It is too late .
And yet you halt not .
I give it you .
What says your Highness to my just request ?
Go draw aside the curtains and discover The several caskets to this noble prince . --
I know not .
Farewell . Adieu .
Under the wrath of noble Hotspur 's sword , And that the King before the Douglas ' rage Stooped his anointed head as low as death . This have I rumored through the peasant towns Between that royal field of Shrewsbury And this worm-eaten hold of ragged stone , Where Hotspur 's father , old Northumberland , Lies crafty - sick . The posts come tiring on , And not a man of them brings other news Than they have learnt of me . From Rumor 's tongues They bring smooth comforts false , worse than true wrongs .
Now will I question Cassio of Bianca , A huswife that by selling her desires Buys herself bread and clothes . It is a creature That dotes on Cassio , as ' tis the strumpet 's plague To beguile many and be beguiled by one . He , when he hears of her , cannot refrain From the excess of laughter . Here he comes .
But saying o'er what I have said before . My child is yet a stranger in the world . She hath not seen the change of fourteen years . Let two more summers wither in their pride Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride .
She gives it out that you shall marry her . Do you intend it ?
Be not offended . I speak not as in absolute fear of you . I think our country sinks beneath the yoke . It weeps , it bleeds , and each new day a gash Is added to her wounds . I think withal There would be hands uplifted in my right ; And here from gracious England have I offer Of goodly thousands . But , for all this , When I shall tread upon the tyrant 's head , Or wear it on my sword , yet my poor country Shall have more vices than it had before , More suffer , and more sundry ways than ever , By him that shall succeed .
Not a dump , we . ' Tis no time to play now .
Ay , that Petruchio came .
Now , the melancholy god protect thee , and the tailor make thy doublet of changeable taffeta , for thy mind is a very opal . I would have men of such constancy put to sea , that their business might be everything and their intent everywhere , for that 's it that always makes a good voyage of nothing . Farewell .
To be hanged .
Come , come , do you think I do not know you by your excellent wit ? Can virtue hide itself ? Go to , mum , you are he . Graces will appear , and there 's an end .
Why , there was a crown offered him ; and , being offered him , he put it by with the back of his hand , thus ; and then the people fell a - shouting .
Oh , it is monstrous , monstrous . Methought the billows spoke and told me of it , The winds did sing it to me , and the thunder , That deep and dreadful organ pipe , pronounced The name of Prosper . It did bass my trespass . Therefore my son i ' th ' ooze is bedded , and I 'll seek him deeper than e' er plummet sounded And with him there lie mudded .
I will , my Hermia .
And what should I do in Illyria ? My brother he is in Elysium . Perchance he is not drown 'd . --What think you , sailors ?
A common slave -- you know him well by sight -- Held up his left hand , which did flame and burn Like twenty torches joined , and yet his hand , Not sensible of fire , remained unscorched . Besides --I ha ' not since put up my sword -- Against the Capitol I met a lion , Who glared upon me and went surly by , Without annoying me . And there were drawn Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women , Transformed with their fear , who swore they saw Men all in fire walk up and down the streets .
Well , niece , I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband .
Get him to bed , and let his hurt be looked to .
Very ill , too .
Farewell .
How canst thou thus for shame , Titania , Knowing I know thy love to Theseus ? Glance at my credit with Hippolyta , Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night From Perigouna , whom he ravished ? And make him with fair AEgles break his faith , With Ariadne and Antiopa ?
Ay , on the front .
And , Prince of Wales , so dare we venture thee , Albeit considerations infinite Do make against it . --No , good Worcester , no , We love our people well , even those we love That are misled upon your cousin 's part . And , will they take the offer of our grace , Both he and they and you , yea , every man Shall be my friend again , and I 'll be his . So tell your cousin , and bring me word What he will do . But if he will not yield , Rebuke and dread correction wait on us , And they shall do their office . So begone . We will not now be troubled with reply . We offer fair . Take it advisedly .
Farewell , sweet lord , and sister .
Le Roy ? A Cornish name . Art thou of Cornish crew ?
As far , my lord , as will fill up the time ' Twixt this and supper . Go not my horse the better , I must become a borrower of the night For a dark hour or twain .
What art thou that usurp 'st this time of night Together with that fair and warlike form In which the majesty of buried Denmark Did sometimes march ? By heaven , I charge thee , speak .
I do not know One of my sex , no woman 's face remember -- Save , from my glass , mine own . Nor have I seen More that I may call men than you , good friend , And my dear father . How features are abroad I am skill - less of , but , by my modesty , The jewel in my dower , I would not wish Any companion in the world but you , Nor can imagination form a shape Besides yourself to like of . But I prattle Something too wildly , and my father 's precepts I therein do forget .
Help me , my women ! Oh , he 's more mad Than Telamon for his shield . The boar of Thessaly Was never so embossed .
I am no fee 'd post , lady . Keep your purse . My master , not myself , lacks recompense . Love make his heart of flint that you shall love , And let your fervor , like my master 's , be Placed in contempt . Farewell , fair cruelty .
By my troth , niece , thou wilt never get thee a husband if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue .
Get you with him , you old dog .
O , yes , my lord , but very idle words . For though you lay here in this goodly chamber , Yet would you say ye were beaten out of door ; And rail upon the hostess of the house , And say you would present her at the leet , Because she brought stone jugs and no sealed quarts . Sometimes you would call out for Cicely Hacket .
It is silliness to live when to live is torment , and then have we a prescription to die when death is our physician .
Sister , content you in my discontent . -- Sir , to your pleasure humbly I subscribe . My books and instruments shall be my company , On them to look and practice by myself .
Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit . For I am sick when I do look on thee .
More matter for a May morning .
More than Prince of Cats . Oh , he 's the courageous captain of compliments . He fights as you sing prick - song , keeps time , distance , and proportion . He rests his minim rests -- one , two , and the third in your bosom . The very butcher of a silk button , a duelist , a duelist , a gentleman of the very first house of the first and second cause . Ah , the immortal passado , the punto reverso , the hai !
I am for thee straight . Take thou the bill , give me thy mete - yard , and spare not me .
I doubt not of your wisdom . Let each man render me his bloody hand . First , Marcus Brutus , will I shake with you . --Next , Caius Cassius , do I take your hand . --Now , Decius Brutus , yours . --Now yours , Metellus . --Yours , Cinna . --And , my valiant Casca , yours . --Though last , not last in love , yours , good Trebonius . --Gentlemen all , alas , what shall I say ? My credit now stands on such slippery ground That one of two bad ways you must conceit me , Either a coward or a flatterer --That I did love thee , Caesar , O , ' tis true . If then thy spirit look upon us now , Shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death To see thy Antony making his peace , Shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes -- Most noble ! -- in the presence of thy corse ? Had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds , Weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood , It would become me better than to close In terms of friendship with thine enemies . Pardon me , Julius ! Here wast thou bayed , brave hart ; Here didst thou fall ; and here thy hunters stand , Signed in thy spoil , and crimsoned in thy lethe . O world , thou wast the forest to this hart , And this indeed , O world , the heart of thee . How like a deer , strucken by many princes , Dost thou here lie !
And I must to Lorenzo and the rest . But we will visit you at supper time .
Belike for want of rain , which I could well Beteem them from the tempest of my eyes .
Think we King Harry strong , And , princes , look you strongly arm to meet him . The kindred of him hath been fleshed upon us , And he is bred out of that bloody strain That haunted us in our familiar paths . Witness our too - much - memorable shame When Cressy battle fatally was struck And all our princes captived by the hand Of that black name , Edward , Black Prince of Wales , Whiles that his mountain sire , on mountain standing
You know the character to be your brother 's ?
I am out of all other tune , methinks .
No , not an oath . If not the face of men , The sufferance of our souls , the time 's abuse -- If these be motives weak , break off betimes , And every man hence to his idle bed . So let high - sighted tyranny range on Till each man drop by lottery . But if these -- As I am sure they do -- bear fire enough To kindle cowards and to steel with valor The melting spirits of women , then , countrymen , What need we any spur but our own cause To prick us to redress ? What other bond Than secret Romans that have spoke the word And will not palter ? And what other oath Than honesty to honesty engaged , That this shall be , or we will fall for it ? Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous , Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls That welcome wrongs . Unto bad causes swear Such creatures as men doubt . But do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise , Nor th ' insuppressive mettle of our spirits , To think that or our cause or our performance Did need an oath , when every drop of blood That every Roman bears -- and nobly bears -- Is guilty of a several bastardy If he do break the smallest particle Of any promise that hath passed from him .
Now , lords , for France , the enterprise whereof Shall be to you as us , like glorious . We doubt not of a fair and lucky war , Since God so graciously hath brought to light This dangerous treason lurking in our way To hinder our beginnings . We doubt not now But every rub is smoothed on our way . Then forth , dear countrymen . Let us deliver Our puissance into the hand of God , Putting it straight in expedition . Cheerly to sea . The signs of war advance . No king of England if not king of France .
As the events stamps them , but they have a good cover ; they show well outward . The Prince and Count Claudio , walking in a thick - pleached alley in mine orchard , were thus much overheard by a man of mine : the Prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it this night in a dance , and if he found her accordant , he meant to take the present time by the top and instantly break with you of it .
O , ' tis our setter . I know his voice , Bardolph . --What news ?
Soft , sir ! One word more . They are both in either 's powers , but this swift business I must uneasy make lest too light winning Make the prize light . One word more . I charge thee That thou attend me . Thou dost here usurp The name thou owest not , and hast put thyself Upon this island as a spy to win it From me , the lord on ' t .
To what base uses we may return , Horatio . Why may not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it stopping a bunghole ?
Is he not able to discharge the money ?
There is no world without Verona walls But purgatory , torture , hell itself . Hence " banished " is banished from the world , And world 's exile is death . Then " banished , "
On our side like the tokened pestilence , Where death is sure . Yon ribaudred nag of Egypt -- Whom leprosy o'ertake ! -- i ' th ' midst o ' th ' fight , When vantage like a pair of twins appeared Both as the same , or rather ours the elder , The breeze upon her , like a cow in June , Hoists sails and flies .
A ship you sent me to , to hire waftage .
I had well hoped thou wouldst have denied Beatrice , that I might have cudgeled thee out of thy single life , to make thee a double - dealer , which out of question , thou wilt be , if my cousin do not look exceedingly narrowly to thee .
Go , Lovell , with all speed to Doctor Shaw . Go thou to Friar Penker . Bid them both Meet me within this hour at Baynard 's Castle .
Tonight I 'll mourn with Hero .
You have not sought it . How comes it then ?
No more words . The clerk is answered .
Nay , good my fellows , do not please sharp fate To grace it with your sorrows . Bid that welcome Which comes to punish us , and we punish it , Seeming to bear it lightly . Take me up . I have led you oft ; carry me now , good friends , And have my thanks for all .
I pray you , speak not . He grows worse and worse . Question enrages him . At once , good night . Stand not upon the order of your going , But go at once .
So stood the state when Henry the Sixth Was crowned in Paris but at nine months old .
Nay , by Saint Jamy , I hold you a penny , A horse and a man Is more than one And yet not many .
I thought to have asked you .
Madam , how like you this play ?
This night methinks is but the daylight sick . It looks a little paler . ' Tis a day Such as the day is when the sun is hid .
First , who think you the most desartless man to be constable ?
One word , sir . Our watch , sir , have indeed comprehended two aspicious persons , and we would have them this morning examined before your worship .
He is afeard to come .
I do believe it Against an oracle .
A herald , Kate ? Oh , put me in thy books !
Sooth , madam , I hear nothing .
Rebellion lay in his way , and he found it .
Pray God you do .
Ay , by heaven , my lord .
This is the place . There , where the torch doth burn .
That 's all one . You shall play it in a mask , and you may speak as small as you will .
What devil art thou that dost torment me thus ? This torture should be roared in dismal hell . Hath Romeo slain himself ? Say thou but " ay , " And that bare vowel I shall poison more Than the death - darting eye of cockatrice . I am not I if there be such an I , Or those eyes shut that makes thee answer " ay . " If he be slain , say " ay , " or if not , " no . " Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe .
To have a foolish wife .
Look in upon me then and speak with me , Or , naked as I am , I will assault thee .
What say you ?
We do not know .
I will frown as I pass by , and let them take it as they list .
Normans , but bastard Normans , Norman bastards ! Mort de ma vie , if they march along Unfought withal , but I will sell my dukedom To buy a slobb'ry and a dirty farm In that nook - shotten isle of Albion .
Marry , then , sweet wag , when thou art king , let not us that are squires of the night 's body be called thieves of the day 's beauty . Let us be Diana 's foresters , gentlemen of the shade , minions of the moon , and let men say we be men of good government , being governed , as the sea is , by our noble and chaste mistress the moon , under whose countenance we steal .
Let him forever go ! --Let him not , Charmian . Though he be painted one way like a Gorgon , The other way 's a Mars . Bid you Alexas Bring me word how tall she is . Pity me , Charmian , But do not speak to me . Lead me to my chamber .
Oh , ' tis treason !
The constable of France .
' Tis true , and therefore women , being the weaker vessels , are ever thrust to the wall . Therefore I will push Montague 's men from the wall , and thrust his maids to the wall .
What , are Ancient Pistol and you friends yet ?
Retire ! We have engaged ourselves too far . Caesar himself has work , and our oppression Exceeds what we expected .
Dearly my delicate Ariel . Do not approach Till thou dost hear me call .
A very handsome man .
From the dread summit of this chalky bourn . Look up a - height . The shrill - gorged lark so far Cannot be seen or heard . Do but look up .
Why , that 's my dainty Ariel . I shall miss thee , But yet thou shalt have freedom . --So , so , so . -- To the king 's ship , invisible as thou art . There shalt thou find the mariners asleep
That head , my lord ?
My ears have not yet drunk a hundred words Of that tongue 's uttering , yet I know the sound . Art thou not Romeo , and a Montague ?
Your mother .
Fie , fie , they are not to be named , my lord , Not to be spoke of ! There is not chastity enough in language , Without offense , to utter them . --Thus , pretty lady , I am sorry for thy much misgovernment .
I grant you .
Petruchio , patience . I am Grumio 's pledge . Why , this ' a heavy chance ' twixt him and you , Your ancient , trusty , pleasant servant Grumio . And tell me now , sweet friend , what happy gale Blows you to Padua here from old Verona ?
Why then , your uncle and the Prince and Claudio Have been deceived . They swore you did .
Will it serve for any model to build mischief on ? What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness ?
Nay , I prithee , put on this gown and this beard . Make him believe thou art Sir Topas the curate . Do it quickly . I 'll call Sir Toby the whilst .
I do beseech you , sir , trouble yourself no further .
No , let 's come in !
I long with all my heart to see the prince . I hope he is much grown since last I saw him .
But are my brother 's powers set forth ?
Let him knock till it ache .
What is it ?
If you will not undo what you have done -- that is , kill him whom you have recovered --desire it not . Fare you well at once . My bosom is full of kindness , and I am yet so near the manners of my mother , that upon the least occasion more mine eyes will tell tales of me . I am bound to the Count Orsino 's court . Farewell .
I thank your lordship . It is very hot .
Dear lady --
Is it possible ?
And I for Rosalind .
Ready .
Sup any women with him ?
Wilt thou be fast to my hopes , if I depend on the issue ?
O sides , you are too tough . Will you yet hold?- -How came my man i ' th ' stocks ?
Though this island seem to be desert --
The hour 's now come . The very minute bids thee ope thine ear . Obey and be attentive . Canst thou remember A time before we came unto this cell ? I do not think thou canst , for then thou wast not Out three years old .
I should not need if you were gentle , Brutus . Within the bond of marriage , tell me , Brutus , Is it excepted I should know no secrets That appertain to you ? Am I yourself But , as it were , in sort or limitation , To keep with you at meals , comfort your bed , And talk to you sometimes ?
I saw thee late at the Count Orsino 's .
Ha , ' twas a merry night . And is Jane Nightwork alive ?
Why ask you ? Hear you aught of her in yours ?
Most noble sir , arise . The Queen approaches . Her head 's declined , and death will seize her but Your comfort makes the rescue .
O God , that right should thus overcome might ! Well , of sufferance comes ease .
Nor you , as we are , loyal .
I will debate this matter at more leisure And teach your ears to list me with more heed . To Adriana , villain , hie thee straight . Give her this key , and tell her in the desk That 's cover 'd o'er with Turkish tapestry There is a purse of ducats . Let her send it . Tell her I am arrested in the street , And that shall bail me . Hie thee , slave . Begone . -- On , officer , to prison till it come .
He hath , my lord , wrung from me my slow leave By laborsome petition , and at last Upon his will I sealed my hard consent . I do beseech you , give him leave to go .
And I , to sound the depth of this knavery .
Robin Starveling , the tailor ?
Was ever woman in this humor wooed ? Was ever woman in this humor won ? I 'll have her , but I will not keep her long . What , I that killed her husband and his father , To take her in her heart 's extremest hate , With curses in her mouth , tears in her eyes , The bleeding witness of my hatred by , Having God , her conscience , and these bars against me , And I no friends to back my suit at all But the plain devil and dissembling looks ? And yet to win her , all the world to nothing ! Ha ! Hath she forgot already that brave prince , Edward , her lord , whom I some three months since Stabbed in my angry mood at Tewkesbury ? A sweeter and a Lovellier gentleman , Framed in the prodigality of nature , Young , valiant , wise , and , no doubt , right royal , The spacious world cannot again afford .
Ay , if your self 's remembrance wrong yourself .
Lady , amen .
What 's the matter ? Have we devils here ? Do you put tricks upon 's with savages and men of Ind , ha ? I have not 'scaped drowning to be afeard now of your four legs . Or it hath been said , " As proper a man as ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground , " and it shall be said so again while Stephano breathes at ' nostrils .
I warrant you , sir , The white cold virgin snow upon my heart Abates the ardor of my liver .
See , Caesar ! Oh , behold How pomp is followed ! Mine will now be yours , And , should we shift estates , yours would be mine . The ingratitude of this Seleucus does Even make me wild . O slave , of no more trust Than love that 's hired ! What , goest thou back ? Thou shalt Go back , I warrant thee ! But I 'll catch thine eyes , Though they had wings . Slave , soulless villain , dog ! Oh , rarely base !
And now they never meet in grove or green , By fountain clear or spangled starlight sheen . But they do square , that all their elves for fear Creep into acorn cups and hide them there .
Well , tell me now what lady is the same To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage , That you today promised to tell me of ?
So doth the greater glory dim the less . A substitute shines brightly as a king Until a king be by , and then his state Empties itself , as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters . Music , hark .
I know not , sir .
You peasant swain ! You whoreson malt - horse drudge ! Did I not bid thee meet me in the park And bring along these rascal knaves with thee ?
Now Margaret 's curse is fall'n upon our heads , When she exclaimed on Hastings , you , and I , For standing by when Richard stabbed her son .
Ah , welladay ! He 's dead , he 's dead , he 's dead ! We are undone , lady , we are undone ! Alack the day ! He 's gone , he 's killed , he 's dead !
Here comes my noble gull - catcher .
What kind of woman is't ?
It must be your imagination then , and not theirs .
Who shall begin ?
I had rather heat my liver with drinking .
Were you made the messenger ?
And did they so ?
Maud , Bridget , Marian , Ciceley , Gillian , Ginn !
Ay , to a niggardly host and more sparing guest . But though my cates be mean , take them in good part . Better cheer may you have , but not with better heart . But soft ! My door is lock 'd . Go , bid them let us in .
Do , kill thy physician , and the fee bestow Upon thy foul disease . Revoke thy gift , Or whilst I can vent clamor from my throat , I 'll tell thee thou dost evil .
The man hath seen some majesty and should know .
Run barefoot up and down , threatening the flames With bisson rheum , a clout upon that head Where late the diadem stood , and for a robe , About her lank and all o'erteemed loins , A blanket , in the alarm of fear caught up -- Who this had seen , with tongue in venom steeped , ' Gainst fortune 's state would treason have pronounced . But if the gods themselves did see her then When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport In mincing with his sword her husband 's limbs , The instant burst of clamor that she made , Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven , And passion in the gods .
I know that we shall have him well to friend .
That would hang us , every mother 's son .
O spite ! O hell ! I see you all are bent To set against me for your merriment . If you were civil and knew courtesy , You would not do me thus much injury . Can you not hate me , as I know you do , But you must join in souls to mock me too ? If you were men , as men you are in show , You would not use a gentle lady so
Am I your bird ? I mean to shift my bush , And then pursue me as you draw your bow . -- You are welcome all .
Hear me , recreant ! On thine allegiance hear me . That thou hast sought to make us break our vows , Which we durst never yet , and with strained pride To come betwixt our sentence and our power , Which nor our nature nor our place can bear ,
Men 's eyes were made to look and let them gaze . I will not budge for no man 's pleasure , I.
The point envenomed too ! --Then , venom , to thy work .
In christening shalt thou have two godfathers . Had I been judge , thou shouldst have had ten more -- To bring thee to the gallows , not to the font .
You have little cause to say so .
You have said now .
Claribel .
Lord Edmund spake not with your lord at home ?
In happy time .
Stay , fellow . I can read . " Seigneur Martino and his wife and daughters ; County Anselme and his beauteous sisters ; The lady widow of Vitruvio ; Seigneur Placentio and his lovely nieces ; Mercutio and his brother Valentine ; Mine uncle Capulet , his wife and daughters ; My fair niece Rosaline and Livia ;
How likes Gremio these quick-witted folks ?
Tarry , sweet Beatrice .
I see you what you are , you are too proud . But , if you were the devil , you are fair . My lord and master loves you . Oh , such love Could be but recompensed though you were crowned The nonpareil of beauty .
Get thee gone , but do it .
Sovereign , here lies the County Paris slain , And Romeo dead , and Juliet , dead before , Warm and new killed .
Poins ! Poins , and be hanged ! Poins !
A good old man , sir . He will be talking . As they say , " When the age is in , the wit is out . " God help us , it is a world to see ! Well said , i ' faith , neighbor Verges . --Well , God 's a good man . An two men ride of a horse , one must ride behind . An honest soul , i ' faith , sir , by my troth he is , as ever broke bread , but God is to be worshipped , all men are not alike , alas , good neighbor !
Tush , I may as well say the fool 's the fool . But seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion is ?
I thank you , good my lord , and thank you all . -- I thought my mother and my brother York Would long ere this have met us on the way . Fie , what a slug is Hastings that he comes not To tell us whether they will come or no !
What shall he have that killed the deer ? His leather skin and horns to wear . Then sing him home . Take thou no scorn to wear the horn . It was a crest ere thou wast born . Thy father 's father wore it , And thy father bore it . The horn , the horn , the lusty horn Is not a thing to laugh to scorn .
What have I kept back ?
Fair love , you faint with wandering in the wood . And to speak troth , I have forgot our way .
I know not whether God will have it so For some displeasing service I have done , That , in his secret doom , out of my blood He 'll breed revengement and a scourge for me . But thou dost in thy passages of life Make me believe that thou art only marked For the hot vengeance and the rod of heaven To punish my mistreadings . Tell me else , Could such inordinate and low desires , Such poor , such bare , such lewd , such mean attempts , Such barren pleasures , rude society As thou art matched withal , and grafted to , Accompany the greatness of thy blood , And hold their level with thy princely heart ?
Authority .
Beseech you , father .
Well , thou hast called her to a reckoning many a time and oft .
Get thee gone . Say to Ventidius I would speak with him .
So , so , so , so ! They laugh that win !
Ariel , thy charge Exactly is performed . But there 's more work . What is the time o ' th ' day ?
No , no , my lord , Though I condemn not , yet under pardon You are much more attasked for want of wisdom Than praised for harmful mildness .
Then love me , Rosalind .
And look , where Publius is come to fetch me .
Honest , ay , honest .
Say , what thing , what thing ?
Peace , peace !
Go , you wild bedfellow , you cannot soothsay .
' Tis now the very witching time of night , When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out Contagion to this world . Now could I drink hot blood And do such bitter business as the bitter day Would quake to look on . Soft , now to my mother . -- O heart , lose not thy nature , let not ever The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom . Let me be cruel , not unnatural .
It is , my liege , and all things are in readiness .
A marvelous witty fellow , I assure you , but I will go about with him . --Come you hither , sirrah , a word in your ear . Sir , I say to you it is thought you are false knaves .
Hey , Robin , jolly Robin , Tell me how thy lady does .
I am sorry now that I did draw on him .
O Lord , he will hang upon him like a disease ! He is sooner caught than the pestilence , and the taker runs presently mad . God help the noble Claudio ! If he have caught the Benedick , it will cost him a thousand pound ere a be cured .
Yes , gracious madam .
Now Jove , in his next commodity of hair , send thee a beard !
This is thy negligence . Still thou mistakest , Or else committ 'st thy knaveries willfully .
Poor key - cold figure of a holy king , Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster , Thou bloodless remnant of that royal blood , Be it lawful that I invocate thy ghost To hear the lamentations of poor Anne , Wife to thy Edward , to thy slaughtered son , Stabbed by the selfsame hand that made these wounds . Lo , in these windows that let forth thy life I pour the helpless balm of my poor eyes . O , cursed be the hand that made these holes ; Cursed the heart that had the heart to do it ; Cursed the blood that let this blood from hence . More direful hap betide that hated wretch That makes us wretched by the death of thee Than I can wish to wolves , to spiders , toads , Or any creeping venomed thing that lives . If ever he have child , abortive be it , Prodigious , and untimely brought to light , Whose ugly and unnatural aspect May fright the hopeful mother at the view , And that be heir to his unhappiness .
In voices well divulged , free , learned , and valiant ; And in dimension and the shape of nature A gracious person . But yet I cannot love him ; He might have took his answer long ago .
Let us on , And publish the occasion of our arms . The commonwealth is sick of their own choice . Their over - greedy love hath surfeited . An habitation giddy and unsure Hath he that buildeth on the vulgar heart . O thou fond many , with what loud applause Didst thou beat heaven with blessing Bolingbroke Before he was what thou wouldst have him be . And being now trimmed in thine own desires , Thou , beastly feeder , art so full of him That thou provok 'st thyself to cast him up . So , so , thou common dog , didst thou disgorge Thy glutton bosom of the royal Richard , And now thou wouldst eat thy dead vomit up And howl 'st to find it . What trust is in these times ? They that , when Richard lived , would have him die Are now become enamored on his grave . Thou , that threw 'st dust upon his goodly head When through proud London he came sighing on After th ' admired heels of Bolingbroke , Criest now " O earth , yield us that King again , And take thou this ! " O thoughts of men accursed ! Past and to come seems best ; things present , worst .
No , by my troth , not long , for we cannot lodge and board a dozen or fourteen gentlewomen that live honestly by the prick of their needles but it will be thought we keep a bawdy house straight .
Hadst thou done so , The kings that have revolted , and the soldier That has this morning left thee , would have still Followed thy heels .
No ? Why ? When he that is my husband now Came to me , as I followed Henry 's corse , When scarce the blood was well washed from his hands Which issued from my other angel husband And that dear saint which then I weeping followed -- O , when , I say , I looked on Richard 's face , This was my wish : be thou , quoth I , accursed For making me , so young , so old a widow ; And , when thou wedd'st , let sorrow haunt thy bed ; And be thy wife , if any be so mad , More miserable by the life of thee Than thou hast made me by my dear lord 's death . Lo , ere I can repeat this curse again , Within so small a time my woman 's heart Grossly grew captive to his honey words And proved the subject of mine own soul 's curse , Which hitherto hath held my eyes from rest , For never yet one hour in his bed Did I enjoyed the golden dew of sleep , But with his timorous dreams was still awaked . Besides , he hates me for my father Warwick , And will , no doubt , shortly be rid of me .
Why , he has three thousand ducats a year .
Do you bite your thumb at us , sir ?
O God , I fear all will be overturned .
Your tale , sir , would cure deafness .
Good morrow , and God save your Majesty .
Poor Tom 's a - cold . I cannot daub it further .
The let - alone lies not in your good will .
Go , hang yourselves all ! You are idle , shallow things . I am not of your element . You shall know more hereafter .
O my prophetic soul ! My uncle ?
My noble lord , from Eastcheap .
In faith , it is a conquest for a prince to boast of .
Ah , so much interest have I in thy sorrow As I had title in thy noble husband . I have bewept a worthy husband 's death And lived with looking on his images ; But now two mirrors of his princely semblance Are cracked in pieces by malignant death , And I , for comfort , have but one false glass That grieves me when I see my shame in him . Thou art a widow , yet thou art a mother , And hast the comfort of thy children left , But death hath snatched my husband from mine arms And plucked two crutches from my feeble hands , Clarence and Edward . O , what cause have I , Thine being but a moiety of my moan , To overgo thy woes and drown thy cries !
So you must take your husbands . --Begin , murderer . Pox , leave thy damnable faces , and begin . Come , " The croaking raven doth bellow for revenge -- "
Of all the days i ' the year , I came to ' t that day that our last King Hamlet overcame Fortinbras .
Fulvia thy wife first came into the field .
Dream on thy cousins smothered in the Tower . Let us be lead within thy bosom , Richard , And weigh thee down to ruin , shame , and death . Thy nephews ' souls bid thee despair and die . Sleep , Richmond , sleep in peace and wake in joy . Good angels guard thee from the boar 's annoy . Live , and beget a happy race of kings . Edward 's unhappy sons do bid thee flourish .
Stand back . Room ! Bear back .
Are you sure That we are awake ? It seems to me That yet we sleep , we dream . Do not you think The duke was here , and bid us follow him ?
Give me leave . Here lies the water . Good . Here stands the man . Good . If the man go to this water and drown himself , it is , will he nill he , he goes . Mark you that . But if the water come to him and drown him , he drowns not himself . Argal , he that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life .
He faints ! --My lord , my lord !
An you should do it too terribly , you would fright the duchess and the ladies , that they would shriek . And that were enough to hang us all .
Our fortune lies Upon this jump .
Walk . Let 's see if other watchmen Do hear what we do .
Cassio hath here been set on in the dark By Roderigo and fellows that are ' scaped . He 's almost slain , and Roderigo dead .
" Fare thee well , and God have mercy upon one of our souls . He may have mercy upon mine , but my hope is better , and so look to thyself . Thy friend , as thou usest him , and thy sworn enemy , Andrew Aguecheek "
But yet , madam --
Give you good morrow , sir .
I am a very villain else .
The lords at Pomfret , when they rode from London , Were jocund and supposed their states were sure , And they indeed had no cause to mistrust ; But yet you see how soon the day o'ercast . This sudden stab of rancor I misdoubt . Pray God , I say , I prove a needless coward ! What , shall we toward the Tower ? The day is spent .
O Pomfret , Pomfret ! O thou bloody prison , Fatal and ominous to noble peers ! Within the guilty closure of thy walls , Richard the Second here was hacked to death , And , for more slander to thy dismal seat , We give thee up our guiltless blood to drink .
Here is the man .
Zounds ! You rogue ! You rascal !
What , did they never whisper ?
No , no , my lord . Note this : the King is weary Of dainty and such picking grievances , For he hath found to end one doubt by death Revives two greater in the heirs of life ; And therefore will he wipe his tables clean And keep no telltale to his memory That may repeat and history his loss To new remembrance . For full well he knows He cannot so precisely weed this land As his misdoubts present occasion ; His foes are so enrooted with his friends That , plucking to unfix an enemy , He doth unfasten so and shake a friend ; So that this land , like an offensive wife That hath enraged him on to offer strokes , As he is striking holds his infant up And hangs resolved correction in the arm That was upreared to execution .
" My lady 's father " ? My lord 's knave , your whoreson dog ! You slave , you cur !
Thou changed and self - covered thing , for shame ! Bemonster not thy feature . Were ' t my fitness To let these hands obey my blood , They are apt enough to dislocate and tear Thy flesh and bones . Howe'er thou art a fiend , A woman 's shape doth shield thee .
In , fellow . There , into th ' hovel . Keep thee warm .
He that was in question for the robbery ?
Truly , thou art damned , like an ill - roasted egg , all on one side .
If thou beest as poor for a subject as he 's for a king , thou'rt poor enough . What wouldst thou ?
Remember our reward when the deed' s done .
O excellent young man !
I have been dear to him , lad , some two thousand strong , or so .
Villains , you did not so when your vile daggers Hacked one another in the sides of Caesar . You showed your teeth like apes , and fawned like hounds , And bowed like bondmen , kissing Caesar 's feet , Whilst damned Casca , like a cur , behind Struck Caesar on the neck . O you flatterers !
Fouler than heart can think thee , thou canst make No excuse current but to hang thyself .
Pray thee , corporal , stay . The knocks are too hot , and , for mine own part , I have not a case of lives . The humor of it is too hot ; that is the very plainsong of it .
Being entertained for a perfumer , as I was smoking a musty room , comes me the Prince and Claudio , hand in hand , in sad conference . I whipped me behind the arras , and there heard it agreed upon that the Prince should woo Hero for himself , and having obtained her , give her to Count Claudio .
What is the cause , Laertes , That thy rebellion looks so giant - like?- - Let him go , Gertrude . Do not fear our person . There 's such divinity doth hedge a king That treason can but peep to what it would , Acts little of his will . --Tell me , Laertes , Why thou art thus incensed . --Let him go , Gertrude . -- Speak , man .
Sirrah carrier , what time do you mean to come to London ?
Help , mistress , help ! My master is mad .
Yea , two and two , Newgate fashion .
Wherefore is that ? And what art thou that dar 'st Appear thus to us ?
Why , ' tis a loving and a fair reply . Be as ourself in Denmark . --Madam , come . This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet Sits smiling to my heart , in grace whereof No jocund health that Denmark drinks today But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell , And the king 's rouse the heavens shall bruit again , Respeaking earthly thunder . Come away .
Call up the right Master Constable . We have here recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known in the commonwealth .
Thou hast my love . Is not that neighborly ?
Well , God'ield you ! They say the owl was a baker 's daughter . Lord , we know what we are , but know not what we may be . God be at your table .
Give me some music . Now , good morrow , friends . -- Now , good Cesario , but that piece of song , That old and antique song we heard last night . Methought it did relieve my passion much , More than light airs and recollected terms Of these most brisk and giddy - paced times : Come , but one verse .
What if it come to thee again ?
What dost thou profess ? What wouldst thou with us ?
Mooncalf , speak once in thy life , if thou beest a good mooncalf .
Her husband , sirrah ?
I hold your dainties cheap , sir , and your welcome dear .
I am their father 's mother . I will see them .
It seems then that the tidings of this broil Brake off our business for the Holy Land .
Give me your favor . My dull brain was wrought With things forgotten . Kind gentlemen , your pains Are registered where every day I turn The leaf to read them . Let us toward the king . Think upon what hath chanced , and , at more time , The interim having weighed it , let us speak Our free hearts each to other .
You either fear his humor or my negligence , that you call in question the continuance of his love . Is he inconstant , sir , in his favors ?
Stay , then . I 'll go alone . Fear comes upon me . Oh , much I fear some ill unthrifty thing .
His taints and honors Waged equal with him .
What hast thou been ?
O well - divided disposition ! Note him , Note him , good Charmian , ' tis the man , but note him . He was not sad , for he would shine on those That make their looks by his . He was not merry , Which seemed to tell them his remembrance lay In Egypt with his joy , but between both . O heavenly mingle ! Be 'st thou sad or merry , The violence of either thee becomes , So does it no man else . --Mett 'st thou my posts ?
Nothing . I have sworn . I am firm .
My lord , will ' t please you pass along ? Myself and my good cousin Buckingham Will to your mother , to entreat of her To meet you at the Tower and welcome you .
Two nights together had these gentlemen , Marcellus and Barnardo , on their watch , In the dead waste and middle of the night , Been thus encountered : a figure like your father , Armed at point exactly , cap - a - pie , Appears before them and with solemn march Goes slow and stately by them . Thrice he walked By their oppressed and fear - surprised eyes Within his truncheon 's length , whilst they , distilled Almost to jelly with the act of fear , Stand dumb and speak not to him . This to me In dreadful secrecy impart they did , And I with them the third night kept the watch , Where - -as they had delivered , both in time , Form of the thing , each word made true and good -- The apparition comes . I knew your father . These hands are not more like .
In such a night Did young Lorenzo swear he loved her well , Stealing her soul with many vows of faith , And ne'er a true one .
No , boy .
Away , varlets ! --Draw , Bardolph . Cut me off the villain 's head . Throw the quean in the channel .
I am hurt . A plague o ' both your houses ! I am sped . Is he gone and hath nothing ?
His discretion , I am sure , cannot carry his valor , for the goose carries not the fox . It is well . Leave it to his discretion , and let us listen to the moon .
Ay , my lord .
Indeed ?
You mean , to bear me , not to bear with me . -- Uncle , my brother mocks both you and me . Because that I am little , like an ape , He thinks that you should bear me on your shoulders .
Then thus : Baptista is safe , talking with the deceiving father of a deceitful son .
Hapless Egeon , whom the fates have marked To bear the extremity of dire mishap , Now , trust me , were it not against our laws , Against my crown , my oath , my dignity , Which princes , would they , may not disannul , My soul would sue as advocate for thee . But though thou art adjudged to the death , And passed sentence may not be recalled But to our honour 's great disparagement , Yet will I favor thee in what I can . Therefore , merchant , I 'll limit thee this day To seek thy life by beneficial help . Try all the friends thou hast in Ephesus ; Beg thou , or borrow , to make up the sum , And live . If no , then thou art doom 'd to die . - Jailer , take him to thy custody .
Only I yield to die . There is so much that thou wilt kill me straight . Kill Brutus , and be honored in his death .
What 's that ?
I smell it . Upon my life , it will do well .
Most constantly .
I am settled , and bend up Each corporal agent to this terrible feat . Away , and mock the time with fairest show . False face must hide what the false heart doth know .
Ready .
We 'll ha ' t tomorrow night . You could , for a need , study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and insert in ' t , could you not ?
My lord , I came to see your father 's funeral .
A pox of this gout ! Or , a gout of this pox , for the one or the other plays the rogue with my great toe . ' Tis no matter if I do halt . I have the wars for my color , and my pension shall seem the more reasonable . A good wit will make use of anything . I will turn diseases to commodity .
I shall obey , my lord .
We meet like men that had forgot to speak .
Here comes Romeo , here comes Romeo .
What is the matter ? Keep the peace here , ho !
I hear him coming . Let 's withdraw , my lord .
O illegitimate construction ! I scorn that with my heels .
Do you know what you say ?
Their aunt I am in law , in love their mother . Then bring me to their sights . I 'll bear thy blame And take thy office from thee , on my peril .
Where should this music be ? I ' th ' air or th ' earth ? It sounds no more , and sure , it waits upon Some god o ' th ' island . Sitting on a bank , Weeping again the king my father 's wrack , This music crept by me upon the waters , Allaying both their fury and my passion With its sweet air . Thence I have followed it , Or it hath drawn me rather . But ' tis gone . No , it begins again .
Ay , Desdemona .
Antony only , that would make his will Lord of his reason . What though you fled From that great face of war , whose several ranges Frighted each other ? Why should he follow ? The itch of his affection should not then Have nicked his captainship at such a point When half to half the world opposed , he being The mered question . ' Twas a shame no less Than was his loss , to course your flying flags And leave his navy gazing .
Now , Master Gower , what news ?
Edmund is dead , my lord .
I brought my master news of Juliet 's death , And then in post he came from Mantua To this same place , to this same monument . This letter he early bid me give his father , And threatened me with death , going in the vault , If I departed not and left him there .
A woman 's tailor , sir .
My widow says , thus she conceives her tale .
Such an exploit have I in hand , Ligarius , Had you a healthful ear to hear of it .
Why , what a monstrous fellow art thou , thus to rail on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee !
Toward Peloponnesus are they fled .
I pray you , do .
Ha ! Ha ! False to me ?
Sir , good success .
Urge neither charity nor shame to me . Uncharitably with me have you dealt , And shamefully my hopes by you are butchered . My charity is outrage , life my shame , And in that shame still live my sorrows ' rage .
Will you have Doll Tearsheet meet you at supper ?
Then leave him out .
Let it be tonight , For now they are oppressed with travel . They Will not , nor cannot , use such vigilance As when they are fresh .
Why , look you , I am whipped and scourged with rods , Nettled and stung with pismires , when I hear Of this vile politician , Bolingbroke . In Richard 's time -- what do you call the place ? A plague upon it ! It is in Gloucestershire . ' Twas where the madcap duke his uncle kept , His uncle York ; where I first bowed my knee Unto this king of smiles , this Bolingbroke . ' Sblood , when you and he came back from Ravenspurgh .
I warrant thee . Meet me by and by at the citadel . I must fetch his necessaries ashore . Farewell .
O notable strumpet ! Cassio , may you suspect Who they should be that have thus mangled you ?
What wilt thou tell her , Nurse ? Thou dost not mark me .
To cart her , rather . She 's too rough for me . -- There , there , Hortensio , will you any wife ?
I learn in this letter that Don Pedro of Aragon comes this night to Messina .
No , by the rood , not so . You are the queen , your husband 's brother 's wife , And -- would it were not so ! -- you are my mother .
O husband , God doth know you dined at home , Where would you had remained until this time , Free from these slanders and this open shame .
No , I 'll give thee thy due . Thou hast paid all there .
Is he not approved in the height a villain , that hath slandered , scorned , dishonored my kinswoman ? Oh , that I were a man ! What , bear her in hand until they come to take hands and then , with public accusation , uncovered slander , unmitigated rancor --O God , that I were a man ! I would eat his heart in the marketplace .
Here stand , my lords , and send discoverers forth To know the numbers of our enemies .
What should we say , my lord ?
A very reverent body , ay , such a one as a man may not speak of without he say " sir-reverence . " I have but lean luck in the match , and yet is she a wondrous fat marriage .
How oft when men are at the point of death Have they been merry , which their keepers call A lightning before death ! Oh , how may I Call this a lightning?- -O my love , my wife ! Death , that hath sucked the honey of thy breath , Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty . Thou art not conquered . Beauty 's ensign yet Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks , And death 's pale flag is not advanced there . -- Tybalt , liest thou there in thy bloody sheet ? O , what more favor can I do to thee , Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain To sunder his that was thine enemy ? Forgive me , cousin . --Ah , dear Juliet , Why art thou yet so fair ? Shall I believe That unsubstantial death is amorous , And that the lean abhorred monster keeps Thee here in dark to be his paramour ? For fear of that , I still will stay with thee , And never from this palace of dim night Depart again . Here , here will I remain With worms that are thy chamber maids . Oh , here Will I set up my everlasting rest , And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars From this world - wearied flesh . Eyes , look your last . Arms , take your last embrace . And , lips , O you The doors of breath , seal with a righteous kiss A dateless bargain to engrossing death . Come , bitter conduct , come , unsavoury guide . Thou desperate pilot , now at once run on The dashing rocks thy seasick , weary bark . Here 's to my love ! O true apothecary , Thy drugs are quick . Thus with a kiss I die .
What , urge you your petitions in the street ? Come to the Capitol .
My lady is unkind , perdy .
Such an act That blurs the grace and blush of modesty , Calls virtue hypocrite , takes off the rose From the fair forehead of an innocent love And sets a blister there , makes marriage vows As false as dicers ' oaths -- oh , such a deed As from the body of contraction plucks The very soul , and sweet religion makes A rhapsody of words . Heaven 's face doth glow O ' er this solidity and compound mass With tristful visage , as against the doom , Is thought - sick at the act .
That he hath a neighborly charity in him , for he borrowed a box of the ear of the Englishman and swore he would pay him again when he was able . I think the Frenchman became his surety and sealed under for another .
I tell thee , man , ' tis better with me now Than when thou met 'st me last where now we meet . Then was I going prisoner to the TowerBy the suggestion of the queen 's allies . But now , I tell thee -- keep it to thyself -- This day those enemies are put to death , And I in better state than e' er I was .
If the matter were good , my lord , I durst swear it were his . But in respect of that , I would fain think it were not .
He is not doubted . --A word , Lucillius . How he received you , let me be resolved .
And what hope is that , I pray thee ?
What , would you make me mad ? Am not I Christopher Sly , old Sly 's son of Burton Heath , by birth a peddler , by education a cardmaker , by transmutation a bearherd , and now by present profession a tinker ? Ask Marian Hacket , the fat alewife of Wincot , if she know me not ! If she say I am not fourteen pence on the score for sheer ale , score me up for the lying 'st knave in Christendom . What ! I am not bestraught ! Here 's --
What will I do , think 'st thou ?
Yet do I not use my horse for my mistress , or any such proverb so little kin to the purpose .
Maintain no words with him , good fellow . Who , I , sir ? Not I , sir . God b ' wi ' you , good Sir Topas . Marry , amen . I will , sir , I will .
For God 's sake , thrust him downstairs . I cannot endure such a fustian rascal .
A howling monster , a drunken monster .
Come apace , good Audrey . I will fetch up your goats , Audrey . And how , Audrey ? Am I the man yet ? Doth my simple feature content you ?
I doubt it not , and all these woes shall serve For sweet discourses in our time to come .
Come , lady , come , you have lost the heart of Signior Benedick .
But for a satisfaction of my thought , No further harm .
I might call him A thing divine , for nothing natural I ever saw so noble .
And you , sir .
The hart .
I am here already , sir .
' Tis certain then for Cyprus . Marcus Luccicos , is not he in town ?
Yet come again , for thou perhaps mayst move That heart , which now abhors , to like his love .
Why , then All Souls ' Day is my body 's doomsday . This is the day which , in King Edward 's time , I wished might fall on me when I was found False to his children and his wife 's allies . This is the day wherein I wished to fall By the false faith of him who most I trusted . This , this All Souls ' Day to my fearful soul Is the determined respite of my wrongs . That high All - seer which I dallied with Hath turned my feigned prayer on my head And given in earnest what I begged in jest .
Shall we hear from you , Catesby , ere we sleep ?
Thus do all traitors . If their purgation did consist in words , They are as innocent as grace itself . Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not .
Is ' t come to this ?
Now he importunes him To tell it o'er . Go to , well said , well said .
An inviting eye , and yet methinks right modest .
For no man , sir .
Though this be madness , yet there is method in ' t . -- Will you walk out of the air , my lord ?
By your patience , Aunchient Pistol , Fortune is painted blind , with a muffler afore her eyes , to signify to you that Fortune is blind ; and she is painted also with a wheel to signify to you , which is the moral of it , that she is turning and inconstant , and mutability and variation ; and her foot , look you , is fixed upon a spherical stone , which rolls and rolls and rolls . In good truth , the poet makes a most excellent description of it . Fortune is an excellent moral .
It may be his enemy is a gentleman of great sort , quite from the answer of his degree .
Take to you no hard thoughts . The record of what injuries you did us , Though written in our flesh , we shall remember As things but done by chance .
There is , there is .
Now I perceive the devil understands Welsh , And ' tis no marvel he is so humorous . By ' r Lady , he is a good musician .
We 'll play with them the first boy for a thousand ducats .
Hold , daughter . I do spy a kind of hope , Which craves as desperate an execution As that is desperate which we would prevent . If , rather than to marry County Paris , Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself , Then is it likely thou wilt undertake A thing like death to chide away this shame , That copest with death himself to 'scape from it . An if thou darest , I 'll give thee remedy .
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation .
Therefore , my lord --
Go fetch fire .
O , peace ! Now he 's deeply in . Look how imagination blows him .
No , Corin , being old , thou canst not guess , Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover As ever sighed upon a midnight pillow . But if thy love were ever like to mine -- As sure I think did never man love so -- How many actions most ridiculous Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy ?
She says you have some goodly jest in hand . She will not come . She bids you come to her .
Our son shall win .
He was a man . Take him for all in all . I shall not look upon his like again .
Good , and valiant .
Then she puts you to entreaty , and there begins new matter .
Methinks my moiety , north from Burton here , In quantity equals not one of yours . See how this river comes me cranking in And cuts me from the best of all my land A huge half - moon , a monstrous cantle out . I 'll have the current in this place dammed up , And here the smug and silver Trent shall run In a new channel , fair and evenly . It shall not wind with such a deep indent , To rob me of so rich a bottom here .
No , not take interest -- not as you would say Directly interest . Mark what Jacob did : When Laban and himself were compromised That all the eanlings which were streaked and pied Should fall as Jacob 's hire , the ewes , being rank , In the end of autumn turned to the rams . And when the work of generation was Between these woolly breeders in the act , The skillful shepherd peeled me certain wands . And in the doing of the deed of kind He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes , Who then conceiving did in eaning time Fall parti - colored lambs -- and those were Jacob 's . This was a way to thrive , and he was blessed . And thrift is blessing , if men steal it not .
Bardolph , get thee before to Coventry . Fill me a bottle of sack . Our soldiers shall march through . We 'll to Sutton Coldfield tonight .
Mum , then , and no more . Proceed .
I 'll tarry no longer with you . Farewell , good Signior Love .
Both which , Master Constable - -
Marry , peace it bodes , and love , and quiet life , And awful rule , and right supremacy , And , to be short , what not that 's sweet and happy ?
Nay , ' tis twice two months , my lord .
For the women ?
Sir , grieve not you . You are welcome notwithstanding .
In both your armies there is many a soul Shall pay full dearly for this encounter If once they join in trial . Tell your nephew ,
What would my lord and father ?
I know his gait , ' tis he . --Villain , thou diest !
I know you all , and will awhile uphold The unyoked humor of your idleness . Yet herein will I imitate the sun , Who doth permit the base contagious clouds To smother up his beauty from the world , That , when he please again to be himself , Being wanted , he may be more wondered at By breaking through the foul and ugly mist Of vapors that did seem to strangle him .
acquaintance be renewed . Peradventure I will with you to the court .
Why , know 'st thou any harm 's intended towards him ?
I say my daughter is my flesh and blood .
Harry le Roy .
His is certain ; ours is doubtful .
Sir , let me be so bold as ask you , Did you yet ever see Baptista 's daughter ?
What find I here ? Fair Portia 's counterfeit ! What demigod Hath come so near creation ? Move these eyes ? Or whether , riding on the balls of mine , Seem they in motion ? Here are severed lips , Parted with sugar breath . So sweet a bar Should sunder such sweet friends . Here in her hairs , The painter plays the spider and hath woven A golden mesh t ' entrap the hearts of men Faster than gnats in cobwebs . But her eyes -- How could he see to do them ? Having made one , Methinks it should have power to steal both his And leave itself unfurnished . Yet look how far The substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow In underprizing it , so far this shadow Doth limp behind the substance . Here 's the scroll , The continent and summary of my fortune . " You that choose not by the view , Chance as fair and choose as true . Since this fortune falls to you , Be content and seek no new . If you be well pleased with this And hold your fortune for your bliss , Turn you where your lady is And claim her with a loving kiss . "
Indeed , my lord , The melancholy Jaques grieves at that , And in that kind swears you do more usurp Than doth your brother that hath banished you . Today my Lord of Amiens and myself Did steal behind him as he lay along Under an oak , whose antique root peeps out Upon the brook that brawls along this wood , To the which place a poor sequestered stag That from the hunter 's aim had ta'en a hurt Did come to languish . And indeed , my lord , The wretched animal heaved forth such groans That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat Almost to bursting , and the big round tears Coursed one another down his innocent nose In piteous chase . And thus the hairy fool , Much marked of the melancholy Jaques , Stood on th ' extremest verge of the swift brook , Augmenting it with tears .
A king , a king !
Ay , madam , well , for I was bred and born Not three hours ' travel from this very place .
Speak , if you can : what are you ?
Come , tailor , let us see these ornaments . Lay forth the gown .
Who was it that thus cried ? Why , worthy thane , You do unbend your noble strength to think So brainsickly of things . Go get some water , And wash this filthy witness from your hand . Why did you bring these daggers from the place ? They must lie there . Go carry them and smear The sleepy grooms with blood .
Her obsequies have been as far enlarged As we have warranty . Her death was doubtful , And , but that great command o'ersways the order , She should in ground unsanctified have lodged Till the last trumpet . For charitable prayers Shards , flints and pebbles should be thrown on her . Yet here she is allowed her virgin crants , Her maiden strewments , and the bringing home Of bell and burial .
Let them come in .
Praise in departing .
Madam , I am not well .
Then you will bring the chain to her yourself .
Tranio , I saw her coral lips to move And with her breath she did perfume the air . Sacred and sweet was all I saw in her .
Well , fare thee well . I have known thee these twenty-nine years , come peascod time , but an honester and truer - hearted man -- well , fare thee well .
Give me your hand . Art thou learned ?
I know that Deformed . He has been a vile thief this seven year . He goes up and down like a gentleman . I remember his name .
Madam , not now . I am very ill at ease , Unfit for mine own purposes .
Pleaseth your Grace to answer them directly How far forth you do like their articles .
Will you speak well of him that killed your cousin ?
Edmund , farewell .
This is most certain that I shall deliver : Mark Antony is every hour in Rome Expected . Since he went from Egypt ' tis A space for farther travel .
Help me away , dear Charmian ! I shall fall . It cannot be thus long . The sides of nature Will not sustain it .
An angel is like you , Kate , and you are like an angel .
But thine doth fry . Skipper , stand back . ' Tis age that nourisheth .
Here come two of Sir John Falstaff 's men , as I think .
Has he never before sounded you in this business ?
Thou hast not half that power to do me harm As I have to be hurt . O gull ! O dolt ! As ignorant as dirt ! Thou hast done a deed -- I care not for thy sword , I 'll make thee known
And you in hell , As oft as he hears Owen Glendower spoke of .
Th ' harmony of their tongues hath into bondage Brought my too diligent ear . For several virtues Have I liked several women . Never any With so full soul but some defect in her Did quarrel with the noblest grace she owed And put it to the foil . But you , O you , So perfect and so peerless , are created Of every creature 's best .
What tell you me of it ? Be it as it is .
Varrus and Claudio !
Oh , that his fault should make a knave of thee , That art not what th ' art sure of ! Get thee hence . The merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome Are all too dear for me . Lie they upon thy hand And be undone by ' em !
Cried he ? And begged he pardon ?
If it be mine , Keep it not from me . Quickly let me have it .
Where are they ?
' Tis a gentleman here -- a plague o ' these pickle herring ! How now , sot !
Were never orphans had so dear a loss .
Ay , better than him I am before knows me . I know you are my eldest brother , and in the gentle condition of blood you should so know me . The courtesy of nations allows you my better , in that you are the first - born , but the same tradition takes not away my blood , were there twenty brothers betwixt us . I have as much of my father in me as you , albeit , I confess , your coming before me is nearer to his reverence .
Almost a mile ; but he does usually -- So all men do -- from hence to the palace gate Make it their walk .
Alas , what ignorant sin have I committed ?
Not having that which , having , makes them short .
You have put him down , lady , you have put him down .
Give me pardon , sir . If , sir , you come with news from the court , I take it there 's but two ways , either to utter them , or to conceal them . I am , sir , under the King in some authority .
This ?
What 's that to the purpose ?
Indeed , my lord , it followed hard upon .
You do mistake your business . My brother never Did urge me in his act . I did inquire it , And have my learning from some true reports That drew their swords with you . Did he not rather Discredit my authority with yours , And make the wars alike against my stomach , Having alike your cause ? Of this my letters Before did satisfy you . If you 'll patch a quarrel , As matter whole you have to make it with , It must not be with this .
Be innocent of the knowledge , dearest chuck , Till thou applaud the deed . Come , seeling night , Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day And with thy bloody and invisible hand Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond Which keeps me pale . Light thickens , and the crow Makes wing to th ' rooky wood . Good things of day begin to droop and drowse ; Whiles night 's black agents to their preys do rouse . Thou marvel 'st at my words : but hold thee still . Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill . So , prithee , go with me .
Then go we near her , that her ear lose nothing Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it . -- No , truly , Ursula , she is too disdainful . I know her spirits are as coy and wild As haggards of the rock .
Well , then , Colevile is your name , a knight is your degree , and your place the Dale . Colevile shall be still your name , a traitor your degree , and the dungeon your place , a place deep enough so shall you be still Colevile of the Dale .
Oh , thou art deceived . I would have made it short , for I was come to the whole depth of my tale , and meant , indeed , to occupy the argument no longer .
Follow me close , for I will speak to them . Gentlemen , good e' en . A word with one of you .
I have said .
Behold , I have a weapon . A better never did itself sustain Upon a soldier 's thigh . I have seen the day
Hence , horrible villain , or I 'll spurn thine eyes Like balls before me ! I 'll unhair thy head !
Yea , and elsewhere , so far as my coin would stretch , and where it would not , I have used my credit .
Oh , thou didst then ne'er love so heartily . If thou rememb'rest not the slightest folly That ever love did make thee run into , Thou hast not loved . Or if thou hast not sat as I do now , Wearying thy hearer in thy mistress 's praise , Thou hast not loved . Or if thou hast not broke from company Abruptly , as my passion now makes me , Thou hast not loved . O Phoebe , Phoebe , Phoebe !
Fairy King , attend , and mark . I do hear the morning lark .
But do you hear , sir , have you married my daughter without asking my goodwill ?
Sister , you 'll go with us ?
So is the bargain .
Then , you conclude , my grandam , he is dead . The king mine uncle is to blame for it . God will revenge it , whom I will importune With earnest prayers , all to that effect .
Or so much as it needs , To dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds . Make we our march towards Birnam .
Hie thee to hell for shame , and leave the world , Thou cacodemon ! There thy kingdom is .
Come , my lord , I 'll lead you to your tent .
Go hang , sir , hang ! Tell me of that ? Away ! Do as I bid you . --Where 's this cup I called for ?
Lord Alexas , sweet Alexas , most anything Alexas , almost most absolute Alexas , where 's the soothsayer that you praised so to th ' Queen ? Oh that I knew this husband , which , you say , must charge his horns with garlands !
How " strangely " ?
I did not . He was but a fool that brought My answer back . Brutus hath rived my heart . A friend should bear his friend 's infirmities , But Brutus makes mine greater than they are .
You see this fellow that is gone before , He is a soldier fit to stand by Caesar And give direction . And do but see his vice , ' Tis to his virtue a just equinox , The one as long as th ' other . ' Tis pity of him . I fear the trust Othello puts him in On some odd time of his infirmity Will shake this island .
How say you by this change ?
Thy wish was father , Harry , to that thought . I stay too long by thee ; I weary thee . Dost thou so hunger for mine empty chair That thou wilt needs invest thee with my honors Before thy hour be ripe ? O foolish youth , Thou seek 'st the greatness that will overwhelm thee . Stay but a little , for my cloud of dignity Is held from falling with so weak a wind That it will quickly drop . My day is dim . Thou hast stol'n that which after some few hours Were thine without offense , and at my death Thou hast sealed up my expectation . Thy life did manifest thou loved 'st me not , And thou wilt have me die assured of it . Thou hid 'st a thousand daggers in thy thoughts , Which thou hast whetted on thy stony heart To stab at half an hour of my life . What , canst thou not forbear me half an hour ? Then get thee gone and dig my grave thyself , And bid the merry bells ring to thine ear That thou art crowned , not that I am dead . Let all the tears that should bedew my hearse Be drops of balm to sanctify thy head ; Only compound me with forgotten dust . Give that which gave thee life unto the worms . Pluck down my officers , break my decrees ,
I am no thing to thank God on , I would thou shouldst know it ! I am an honest man 's wife , and , setting thy knighthood aside , thou art a knave to call me so .
This is not yet an Alexandrian feast .
I am for it , lieutenant , and I 'll do you justice .
What is the matter ?
You have said , but whether wisely or no , let the forest judge .
Give me some light , away !
Sir John , Sir John , I am well acquainted with your manner of wrenching the true cause the false way . It is not a confident brow , nor the throng of words that come with such more than impudent sauciness from you , can thrust me from a level consideration . You have , as it appears to me , practiced upon the easy - yielding spirit of this woman , and made her serve your uses both in purse and in person .
I serve you , madam . Your graces are right welcome .
Though that the queen on special cause is here , Her army is moved on .
In very brief , the suit is impertinent to myself , as your worship shall know by this honest old man -- and though I say it , though old man , yet poor man , my father --
Liberty ! Freedom ! Tyranny is dead ! Run hence , proclaim , cry it about the streets .
Come , sir , come , I 'll wrestle with you in my strength of love . Look , here I have you .
There be some such , no question .
' Slight , I could so beat the rogue !
We should hold day with the Antipodes , If you would walk in absence of the sun .
Here , quite confounded with this mutiny .
How foolish do your fears seem now , Calphurnia ! I am ashamed I did yield to them . Give me my robe , for I will go .
How ? You fat fool , I scorn you .
He 's had most favorable and happy speed . Tempests themselves , high seas , and howling winds , The guttered rocks and congregated sands , Traitors ensteeped to enclog the guiltless keel , As having sense of beauty , do omit Their mortal natures , letting go safely by The divine Desdemona .
Are his wits safe ? Is he not light of brain ?
There is no fear in him . Let him not die , For he will live and laugh at this hereafter .
O , ay , make up that . --He is now at a cold scent .
The Lord Grandpre .
It follows , then , the cat must stay at home . Yet that is but a crushed necessity , Since we have locks to safeguard necessaries And pretty traps to catch the petty thieves . While that the armed hand doth fight abroad , Th ' advised head defends itself at home . For government , though high and low and lower , Put into parts , doth keep in one consent , Congreeing in a full and natural close , Like music .
Can a weak empty vessel bear such a huge full hogshead ? There 's a whole merchant 's venture of Bourdeaux stuff in him . You have not seen a hulk better stuffed in the hold . -- ome , I 'll be friends with thee , Jack . Thou art going to the
Both of one horse ?
O , peace ! And the spirit of humors intimate reading aloud to him !
Well , your imprisonment shall not be long . I will deliver you or else lie for you . Meantime , have patience .
My lord , I do protest --
Why , a prince should not be so loosely studied as to remember so weak a composition .
" Good friend , " quoth he , " Say the firm Roman to great Egypt sends This treasure of an oyster , at whose foot , To mend the petty present , I will piece Her opulent throne with kingdoms . All the East , Say thou , shall call her mistress . " So he nodded , And soberly did mount an arm - gaunt steed , Who neighed so high that what I would have spoke Was beastly dumbed by him .
Thou shalt have one .
Keep thy word . Fare thee well .
Where will the old duke live ?
Master , if you do , expect spoon meat ; or bespeak a long spoon .
Yea , sir , we hope .
Those wicked creatures yet do look well favored When others are more wicked . Not being the worst Stands in some rank of praise . I 'll go with thee . Thy fifty yet doth double five and twenty , And thou art twice her love .
' Tis not due yet . I would be loath to pay Him before His day . What need I be so forward with Him that calls not on me ? Well , ' tis no matter . Honour pricks me on . Yea , but how if honor prick me off when I come on ? How then ? Can honor set to a leg ? no . Or an arm ? no . Or take away the grief of a wound ? No. Honor hath no skill in surgery , then ? No. What is honor ? A word . What is in that word " honor " ? What is that " honor " ? Air . A trim reckoning . Who hath it ? He that died o ' Wednesday . Doth he feel it ? No. Doth he hear it ? No. ' Tis insensible , then ? Yea , to the dead . But will it not live with the living ? No. Why ? Detraction will not suffer it . Therefore , I 'll none of it . Honor is a mere scutcheon . And so ends my catechism .
By this day and this light , the fellow has mettle enough in his belly . --Hold , there is twelve pence for you , and I pray you to serve God and keep you out of prawls and prabbles and quarrels and dissensions , and I warrant you it is the better for you .
What news , Lord Bardolph ? Every minute now Should be the father of some stratagem . The times are wild . Contention , like a horse Full of high feeding , madly hath broke loose And bears down all before him .
O my son , God put it in thy mind to take it hence That thou mightst win the more thy father 's love , Pleading so wisely in excuse of it . Come hither , Harry , sit thou by my bed And hear , I think , the very latest counsel That ever I shall breathe . God knows , my son , By what bypaths and indirect crook 'd ways I met this crown , and I myself know well How troublesome it sat upon my head . To thee it shall descend with better quiet ,
The greater cantle of the world is lost With very ignorance . We have kissed away Kingdoms and provinces .
To be married to her . --Friar , you come to marry her .
It is a nipping and an eager air .
Our house , my sovereign liege , little deserves The scourge of greatness to be used on it , And that same greatness too which our own hands Have holp to make so portly .
Yet this my comfort : when your words are done , My woes end likewise with the evening sun .
Nay , my lord , he called you " jack , " and said he would cudgel you .
But hark , what new alarum is this same ? The French have reinforced their scattered men . Then every soldier kill his prisoners . Give the word through .
Soft ! The Jew shall have all justice . Soft , no haste . He shall have nothing but the penalty .
I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace , and it better fits my blood to be disdained of all than to fashion a carriage to rob love from any . In this , though I cannot be said to be a flattering honest man , it must not be denied but I am a plain - dealing villain . I am trusted with a muzzle and enfranchised with a clog ; therefore I have decreed not to sing in my cage . If I had my mouth , I would bite ; if I had my liberty , I would do my liking . In the meantime , let me be that I am , and seek not to alter me .
Ay , sir , in Pisa have I often been , Pisa renowned for grave citizens .
But wherefore could not I pronounce " Amen " ? I had most need of blessing , and " Amen " Stuck in my throat .
Abhorred slave , Which any print of goodness wilt not take , Being capable of all ill ! I pitied thee , Took pains to make thee speak , taught thee each hour One thing or other . When thou didst not , savage , Know thine own meaning , but wouldst gabble like A thing most brutish , I endowed thy purposes With words that made them known . But thy vile race , Though thou didst learn , had that in ' t which good natures Could not abide to be with . Therefore wast thou Deservedly confined into this rock , Who hadst deserved more than a prison .
When Prospero is destroyed .
' Tis certain he hath passed the river Somme .
I thank you , sir .
If there be more , more woeful , hold it in . For I am almost ready to dissolve , Hearing of this .
And that his bags shall prove .
O holy Friar , O , tell me , holy Friar , Where is my lady 's lord ? Where 's Romeo ?
If there be truth in sight , you are my Rosalind .
Nay then , I cannot blame his cousin King That wished him on the barren mountains starve . But shall it be that you that set the crown Upon the head of this forgetful man And for his sake wear the detested blot Of murderous subornation -- shall it be That you a world of curses undergo , Being the agents or base second means , The cords , the ladder , or the hangman rather ? O , pardon me that I descend so low To show the line and the predicament Wherein you range under this subtle King . Shall it for shame be spoken in these days , Or fill up chronicles in time to come , That men of your nobility and power
Never believe it . I am more an antique Roman than a Dane . Here 's yet some liquor left .
Now , Catesby , what says your lord to my request ?
You know I gave it you half an hour since .
Believe me , I am passing light in spirit .
By this hand , it will not kill a fly . But come ; now I will be your Rosalind in a more coming - on disposition , and ask me what you will , I will grant it .
Alas , sweet wife , my honor is at pawn , And , but my going , nothing can redeem it .
That which I gave you .
Thou art so fat - witted , with drinking of old sack , and unbuttoning thee after supper , and sleeping upon benches after noon , that thou hast forgotten to demand that truly which thou wouldst truly know . What a devil hast thou to do with the time of the day ? Unless hours were cups of sack , and minutes capons , and clocks the tongues of bawds , and dials the signs of leaping - houses , and the blessed sun himself a fair hot wench in flame-colored taffeta , I see no reason why thou shouldst be so superfluous to demand the time of the day .
Labienus -- This is stiff news -- hath with his Parthian force Extended Asia : from Euphrates His conquering banner shook , from Syria To Lydia and to Ionia , Whilst --
I trust , lords , we shall lie tonight together .
Lo , yonder , and Titinius mourning it .
' Tis the next way to turn tailor , or be red - breast teacher . An the indentures be drawn , I 'll away within these two hours , and so come in when ye will .
He says so , Tranio ?
We did keep time , sir , in our catches . Sneck up !
A horse , a horse , my kingdom for a horse !
Sit , sir .
How do you mean , removing of him ?
I will be satisfied . Deny me this , And an eternal curse fall on you ! Let me know . Why sinks that cauldron ? And what noise is this ?
There needs no ghost , my lord , come from the grave To tell us this .
Away , and let me die .
Thanks , dear my lord .
Did I ever call for thee to pay thy part ?
If he do fear God , he must necessarily keep peace . If he break the peace , he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling .
But shall I live in hope ?
Faith , as you say , there 's small choice in rotten apples . But come , since this bar in law makes us friends , it shall be so far forth friendly maintained till by helping Baptista 's eldest daughter to a husband we set his youngest free for a husband , and then have to ' t afresh . Sweet Bianca ! Happy man be his dole ! He that runs fastest gets the ring . How say you , Signior Gremio ?
Methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in Afric , at the marriage of the king 's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis .
And I think I have the back - trick simply as strong as any man in Illyria .
Lorenzo , and thy love .
Hold , ho ! Lieutenant -- sir , Montano -- gentlemen , Have you forgot all place of sense and duty ? Hold ! The general speaks to you . Hold , for shame !
What is your difference ? Speak .
So did I yours . Good your grace , pardon me . Neither my place nor aught I heard of business Hath raised me from my bed , nor doth the general care Take hold on me , for my particular grief Is of so flood - gate and o'erbearing nature That it engluts and swallows other sorrows And it is still itself .
Come , manage me your caliver : so , very well , go to , very good , exceeding good . O , give me always a little , lean , old , chopped , bald shot . Well said , i ' faith , Wart . Th ' art a good scab . Hold , there 's a tester for thee .
I will chop her into messes ! Cuckold me ?
It is the witness still of excellency To put a strange face on his own perfection . I pray thee , sing , and let me woo no more .
Strike ! Down with them ! Cut the villains ' throats ! Ah , whoreson caterpillars , bacon - fed knaves , they hate us youth . Down with them ! Fleece them !
Her mother hath many times told me so .
Born in Verona , old Antonio 's son . My father dead , my fortune lives for me . And I do hope good days and long to see .
The king is angry . See , he gnaws his lip .
Your Worship , I 'll be with you straight . -- A cup of wine , sir ?
Another Hero !
Why , there 's a wench ! Come on and kiss me , Kate .
By my troth , a pleasant - spirited lady .
God shield I should disturb devotion ! -- Juliet , on Thursday early will I rouse ye . Till then , adieu , and keep this holy kiss .
The flat transgression of a schoolboy who , being overjoyed with finding a birds ' nest , shows it his companion , and he steals it .
My lord , I will be ruled The rather if you could devise it so That I might be the organ .
Shut your mouth , dame , Or with this paper shall I stop it . --Hold , sir , Thou worse than any name , read thine own evil . -- Nay , no tearing , lady . I perceive you know it .
My voice is now the king 's , my looks mine own .
I will not speak with her .
Yet you will be hanged for being so long absent . Or to be turned away , is not that as good as a hanging to you ?
Die men like dogs ! Give crowns like pins ! Have we not Hiren here ?
That he hath used thee .
Yours by this hand . And to see how he prizes the foolish woman your wife ! She gave it him , and he hath given it his whore .
And is it thus ? Repays he my deep service With such deep contempt ? Made I him king for this ? O , let me think on Hastings and be gone To Brecknock , while my fearful head is on !
Let us withdraw . ' Twill be a storm .
Why then , good morrow to you all , my lords . Have you read o'er the letter that I sent you ?
Why , all the boys in Venice follow him , Crying , " His stones , his daughter , and his ducats ! "
I like not fair terms and a villain 's mind .
They say you are a melancholy fellow .
My villainy ?
She returns this ring to you , sir . You might have saved me my pains to have taken it away yourself . She adds , moreover , that you should put your lord into a desperate assurance she will none of him . And one thing more , that you be never so hardy to come again in his affairs , unless it be to report your lord 's taking of this . Receive it so .
With all my heart .
Inter their bodies as becomes their births . Proclaim a pardon to the soldiers fled That in submission will return to us . And then , as we have ta'en the sacrament , We will unite the white rose and the red .
They say he is already in the Forest of Arden , and a many merry men with him ; and there they live like the old Robin Hood of England . They say many young gentlemen flock to him every day and fleet the time carelessly , as they did in the golden world .
For this I owe you . Here comes other reck'nings .
If the great gods be just , they shall assist The deeds of justest men .
There is besides in Roderigo 's letter How he upbraids Iago , that he made him Brave me upon the watch , whereon it came That I was cast . And even but now he spake , After long seeming dead --Iago hurt him , Iago set him on .
Ay , sir , they be ready . The oats have eaten the horses .
I have slept , my lord , already .
I give him curses , yet he gives me love .
She swoons to see them bleed .
O my good lord , yonder 's foul murders done !
O peace , peace , peace ! Now , now .
" I will waylay thee going home , where if it be thy chance to kill me -- "
A most poor man made tame to fortune 's blows , Who by the art of known and feeling sorrows Am pregnant to good pity . Give me your hand , I 'll lead you to some biding .
No matter , since They have left their viands behind , for we have stomachs . Will ' t please you taste of what is here ?
No , though thou call' st thyself a hotter name Than any is in hell .
How long have you been a sectary astronomical ?
Have not you love enough to bear with me , When that rash humor which my mother gave me Makes me forgetful ?
To take is not to give .
Do so . I 'll not be by .
Make all our trumpets speak ; give them all breath , Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death .
For both our sakes , I would that word were true .
I 'll make one too .
Now , by the faith of my love , I will . Tell me where it is .
He attendeth here hard by To know your answer whether you 'll admit him .
I 'm lost in it , my lord . But let him come . It warms the very sickness in my heart That I shall live and tell him to his teeth , " Thus diddest thou . "
Well , sir , the poor distressed Lear 's i ' th ' town , Who sometime in his better tune remembers What we are come about , and by no means Will yield to see his daughter .
What say 'st thou , my lady ?
If we shadows have offended , Think but this , and all is mended -- That you have but slumbered here While these visions did appear . And this weak and idle theme , No more yielding but a dream , Gentles , do not reprehend . If you pardon , we will mend . And , as I am an honest Puck , If we have unearned luck Now to 'scape the serpent 's tongue , We will make amends ere long . Else the Puck a liar call . So good night unto you all . Give me your hands if we be friends , And Robin shall restore amends .
Most certain , if you are she , you do usurp yourself , for what is yours to bestow is not yours to reserve . But this is from my commission . I will on with my speech in your praise and then show you the heart of my message .
We will be revenged .
Did she see thee the while , old boy ? Tell me that .
Speak , Pyramus . --Thisbe , stand forth .
Faith , niece , you tax Signor Benedick too much , but he 'll be meet with you , I doubt it not .
I doubt not that , since we are well - persuaded We carry not a heart with us from hence That grows not in a fair consent with ours , Nor leave not one behind that doth not wish Success and conquest to attend on us .
No ; fifteen hundred foot , five hundred horse Are marched up to my Lord of Lancaster Against Northumberland and the Archbishop .
Oh , that 's an honest fellow . Do not doubt , Cassio , But I will have my lord and you again As friendly as you were .
Up with my tent ! --Here will I lie tonight . But where tomorrow ? Well , all' s one for that . Who hath descried the number of the traitors ?
I do remember now . Henceforth I 'll bear Affliction till it do cry out itself , " Enough , enough , " and die . That thing you speak of , I took it for a man . Often ' twould say , " The fiend , the fiend ! " He led me to that place .
Will your grace command me any service to the world 's end ? I will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on . I will fetch you a toothpicker now from the furthest inch of Asia , bring you the length of Prester John 's foot , fetch you a hair off the great Cham 's beard , do you any embassage to the Pygmies , rather than hold three words ' conference with this harpy . You have no employment for me ?
" The sleeves curiously cut . "
Pray heavens he be , For I have served him , and the man commands Like a full soldier . Let 's to the seaside , ho ! As well to see the vessel that 's come in As to throw out our eyes for brave Othello , Even till we make the main and th ' aerial blue An indistinct regard .
Tug him away ! Being whipped , Bring him again . This jack of Caesar 's shall Bear us an errand to him .
Death is certain . Is old Dooble of your town living yet ?
I 'll give thee , friend , An armor all of gold . It was a king 's .
Who does beguile you ? Who does do you wrong ?
What , the fair Ophelia ?
Bait the hook well ; this fish will bite .
My conscience hath a thousand several tongues , And every tongue brings in a several tale , And every tale condemns me for a villain . Perjury , perjury , in the highest degree ; Murder , stern murder , in the direst degree ; All several sins , all used in each degree , Throng to the bar , crying all , " Guilty ! guilty ! " I shall despair . There is no creature loves me , And if I die no soul will pity me . And wherefore should they , since that I myself Find in myself no pity to myself ? Methought the souls of all that I had murdered Came to my tent , and every one did threat Tomorrow 's vengeance on the head of Richard .
Oh , why rebuke you him that loves you so ? Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe .
Why speaks my father so ungently ? This Is the third man that e' er I saw , the first That e' er I sighed for . Pity move my father To be inclined my way !
Wake Duncan with thy knocking . I would thou couldst .
O diable !
Would you desire lime and hair to speak better ?
Lord of lords ! O infinite virtue , com 'st thou smiling from The world 's great snare uncaught ?
Is Clarence dead ? The order was reversed .
I peseech you heartily , scurvy , lousy knave , at my desires , and my requests , and my petitions , to eat , look you , this leek . Because , look you , you do not love it , nor your affections and your appetites and your digestions does not agree with it , I would desire you to eat it .
I could shake them off my coat . These burs are in my heart .
Ay , when fowls have no feathers and fish have no fin .
Then is doomsday near . But your news is not true . Let me question more in particular . What have you , my good friends , deserved at the hands of fortune that she sends you to prison hither ?
We did , my lord , weeping and commenting Upon the sobbing deer .
Well , if ever thou dost fall from this faith , thou wilt prove a notable argument .
Had he his hurts before ?
Not I. What are you ?
Death and damnation ! Oh !
Madam , my former suit . I do beseech you That by your virtuous means I may again Exist , and be a member of his love Whom I , with all the office of my heart Entirely honor . I would not be delayed . If my offence be of such mortal kind That nor my service past , nor present sorrows , Nor purposed merit in futurity , Can ransom me into his love again , But to know so must be my benefit . So shall I clothe me in a forced content , And shut myself up in some other course , To fortune 's alms .
He is dead , Caesar , Not by a public minister of justice , Nor by a hired knife , but that self hand Which writ his honor in the acts it did Hath , with the courage which the heart did lend it , Splitted the heart . This is his sword . I robbed his wound of it . Behold it stained With his most noble blood .
Cunning .
If there be truth in sight , you are my daughter .
Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman . I never thought him worse . Tell him , so please him come unto this place , He shall be satisfied and , by my honor , Depart untouched .
Give you good night .
Is he married ? I cannot hate thee worser than I do If thou again say " yes . "
Yes , I intend so .
I have been told so of many . But indeed an old religious uncle of mine taught me to speak , who was in his youth an inland man , one that knew courtship too well , for there he fell in love . I have heard him read many lectures against it , and I thank God I am not a woman , to be touched with so many giddy offenses as he hath generally taxed their whole sex withal .
One of them showed me a ring that he had of your daughter for a monkey .
' Tis sweet and commendable in your nature , Hamlet , To give these mourning duties to your father . But you must know your father lost a father , That father lost , lost his , and the survivor bound In filial obligation for some term To do obsequious sorrow . But to persever In obstinate condolement is a course Of impious stubbornness . ' Tis unmanly grief . It shows a will most incorrect to heaven , A heart unfortified , a mind impatient , An understanding simple and unschooled . For what we know must be and is as common As any the most vulgar thing to sense , Why should we in our peevish opposition Take it to heart ? Fie ! ' Tis a fault to heaven , A fault against the dead , a fault to nature , To reason most absurd , whose common theme Is death of fathers , and who still hath cried , From the first corse till he that died today , " This must be so . " We pray you , throw to earth This unprevailing woe , and think of us As of a father . For let the world take note , You are the most immediate to our throne ,
Take you some company , and away to horse . Inform her full of my particular fear , And thereto add such reasons of your own As may compact it more . Get you gone And hasten your return .
You live that shall cry woe for this hereafter .
No , to my cabin . These drums , these trumpets , flutes ! What ! Let Neptune hear we bid a loud farewell To these great fellows . Sound and be hanged , sound out !
Tide life , tide death , I come without delay .
Write down " Master Gentleman Conrade . " --Masters , do you serve God ?
I know the knight is incensed against you , even to a mortal arbitrament , but nothing of the circumstance more .
And there I stood amazed for a while As on a pillory , looking through the lute , While she did call me " rascal fiddler " And " twangling Jack " ; with twenty such vile terms , As had she studied to misuse me so .
Holy Saint Francis , what a change is here ! Is Rosaline , whom thou didst love so dear , So soon forsaken ? Young men 's love then lies Not truly in their hearts , but in their eyes . Jesu Maria , what a deal of brine Hath washed thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline ! How much salt water thrown away in waste To season love that of it doth not taste ! The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears , Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears . Lo , here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit Of an old tear that is not washed off yet . If e' er thou wast thyself and these woes thine , Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline . And art thou changed ? Pronounce this sentence then : Women may fall when there 's no strength in men .
Let his shames quickly Drive him to Rome . ' Tis time we twain Did show ourselves i ' th ' field , and to that end Assemble we immediate council . Pompey Thrives in our idleness .
He is much changed .
Let the king have the letters I have sent , and repair thou to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death . I have words to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb , yet are they much too light for the bore of the matter . These good fellows will bring thee where I am . Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course for England . Of them I have much to tell thee . Fare - well . He that thou knowest thine , Hamlet . " Come , I will give you way for these your letters , And do ' t the speedier , that you may direct me To him from whom you brought them .
Go to , go to , thou art a foolish fellow . Let me be clear of thee .
He ran this way and leapt this orchard wall . Call , good Mercutio .
Out , damned spot ! Out , I say ! --One , two . Why , then , ' tis time to do ' t . Hell is murky ! --Fie , my lord , fie ! A soldier , and afeard ? What need we fear who knows it , when none can call our power to account?- -Yet who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him .
Very brief , and to exceeding good sense -- less .
Antony Did tell me of you , bade me trust you , but I do not greatly care to be deceived , That have no use for trusting . If your master Would have a queen his beggar , you must tell him , That majesty , to keep decorum , must No less beg than a kingdom . If he please To give me conquered Egypt for my son , He gives me so much of mine own as I Will kneel to him with thanks .
Ha , ha ! Look , he wears cruel garters . Horses are tied by the heads , dogs and bears by the neck , monkeys by the loins , and men by the legs . When a man 's overlusty at legs , then he wears wooden nether - stocks .
It is engendered in the eyes , With gazing fed , and fancy dies In the cradle where it lies . Let us all ring fancy 's knell I 'll begin it . --Ding , dong , bell .
You , mistress , all this coil is long of you . Nay , go not back .
But Macbeth is . A good and virtuous nature may recoil In an imperial charge . But I shall crave your pardon . That which you are , my thoughts cannot transpose . Angels are bright still , though the brightest fell . Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace , Yet grace must still look so .
My lord , I am for you , though it cost me ten nights ' watchings .
No better .
Why , no , sir .
I know that voice .
I dreamt a dream tonight .
Ay , ay . I care not for good life .
What noise is this?- -Not dead ? Not yet quite dead ? I that am cruel am yet merciful , I would not have thee linger in thy pain . So , so .
Not that I know .
Some light - foot friend post to the duke of Norfolk -- Ratcliffe , thyself , or Catesby . Where is he ?
Then shall we find tomorrow they have only stomachs to eat and none to fight . Now is it time to arm . Come , shall we about it ?
Why , then , your brown bastard is your only drink , for look you , Francis , your white canvas doublet will sully . In Barbary , sir , it cannot come to so much .
And you , good sir . Pray , have you not a daughter Called Katherina , fair and virtuous ?
What stuff is this ? How say you ? ' Tis true , my brother 's daughter 's Queen of Tunis , So is she heir of Naples , ' twixt which regions There is some space .
Pardon , sweet father .
What says she , fair one ? That the tongues of men are full of deceits ?
And so it is . For this time I will leave you . Tomorrow , if you please to speak with me , I will come home to you . Or , if you will , Come home to me , and I will wait for you .
I say , this house is as dark as ignorance , though ignorance were as dark as hell . And I say , there was never man thus abused . I am no more mad than you are . Make the trial of it in any constant question .
I pray you , sir , let him go while the humor lasts . O ' my word , an she knew him as well as I do , she would think scolding would do little good upon him . She may perhaps call him half a score knaves or so . Why , that 's nothing ; an he begin once , he 'll rail in his rope tricks . I 'll tell you what sir : an she stand him but a little , he will throw a figure in her face and so disfigure her with it that she shall have no more eyes to see withal than a cat . You know him not , sir .
Marry , sir , they praise me and make an ass of me , now my foes tell me plainly I am an ass . So that by my foes , sir I profit in the knowledge of myself , and by my friends , I am abused . So that , conclusions to be as kisses , if your four negatives make your two affirmatives , why then the worse for my friends and the better for my foes .
A beggar , brother ?
Away , you three-inch fool ! I am no beast .
Canst thou so daff me ? Thou hast killed my child . If thou kill 'st me , boy , thou shalt kill a man .
Signior Gratiano ? I cry you gentle pardon , These bloody accidents must excuse my manners That so neglected you .
It will not be accepted , on my life . The Douglas and the Hotspur both together Are confident against the world in arms .
Be it so . I do desire no more .
What 's he that hath so much thy place mistook To set thee here ?
It hath its original from much grief , from study , and perturbation of the brain . I have read the cause of his effects in Galen . It is a kind of deafness .
Lives he ? Wilt thou not answer , man ?
Gracious Olivia --
Ay , he said so , to make us fight cheerfully , but when our throats are cut , he may be ransomed , and we ne'er the wiser .
See where his Grace stands , ' tween two clergymen .
Madam , yond young fellow swears he will speak with you . I told him you were sick . He takes on him to understand so much , and therefore comes to speak with you . I told him you were asleep . He seems to have a foreknowledge of that too , and therefore comes to speak with you . What is to be said to him , lady ? He 's fortified against any denial .
No , sir , I live by the church .
Come all his forces back ?
With his own bolt ; the strong - based promontory Have I made shake , and by the spurs plucked up The pine and cedar ; graves at my command Have waked their sleepers , oped , and let ' em forth By my so potent art . But this rough magic I here abjure , and when I have required Some heavenly music , which even now I do , To work mine end upon their senses that This airy charm is for , I 'll break my staff , Bury it certain fathoms in the earth , And deeper than did ever plummet sound I 'll drown my book .
If I profane with my unworthiest hand This holy shrine , the gentle sin is this : My lips , two blushing pilgrims , ready stand To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss .
Lord Hamlet --
No , no , ' tis all men 's office to speak patience To those that wring under the load of sorrow , But no man 's virtue nor sufficiency To be so moral when he shall endure The like himself . Therefore give me no counsel . My griefs cry louder than advertisement .
It signs well , does it not ?
A servingman , proud in heart and mind , that curled my hair , wore gloves in my cap , served the lust of my mistress ' heart and did the act of darkness with her , swore as many oaths as I spake words and broke them in the sweet face of heaven -- one that slept in the contriving of lust and waked to do it . Wine loved I deeply , dice dearly , and in woman outparamoured the Turk . False of heart , light of ear , bloody of hand -- hog in sloth , fox in stealth , wolf in greediness , dog in madness , lion in prey . Let not the creaking of shoes nor the rustling of silks betray thy poor heart to woman . Keep thy foot out of brothels , thy hand out of plackets , thy pen from lenders ' books , and defy the foul fiend . Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind , says , " Suum , mun , nonny . " Dauphin my boy , my boy , cessez . Let him trot by .
Rapier and dagger .
No , Messala .
I mean not cuckold mad , But sure he is stark mad . When I desired him to come home to dinner , He asked me for a thousand marks in gold . " 'Tis dinnertime , " quoth I. " My gold , " quoth he .
Then did they imitate that which I composed to my courser , for my horse is my mistress .
Confound the ignorant , and amaze indeed The very faculties of eyes and ears . Yet I , A dull and muddy - mettled rascal , peak Like John - a - dreams , unpregnant of my cause , And can say nothing -- no , not for a king , Upon whose property and most dear life A damned defeat was made . Am I a coward ? Who calls me " villain " ? Breaks my pate across ? Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face ? Tweaks me by the nose ? Gives me the lie i ' th ' throat As deep as to the lungs ? Who does me this ? Ha ! ' Swounds , I should take it , for it cannot be But I am pigeon - livered and lack gall To make oppression bitter , or ere this I should have fatted all the region kites With this slave 's offal . Bloody , bawdy villain ! Remorseless , treacherous , lecherous , kindless villain ! O vengeance ! Why , what an ass am I ! This is most brave , That I , the son of a dear father murdered , Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell , Must , like a whore , unpack my heart with words And fall a - cursing like a very drab , A scullion ! Fie upon ' t , foh ! About , my brain . --Hum , I have heard That guilty creatures sitting at a play Have , by the very cunning of the scene , Been struck so to the soul that presently They have proclaimed their malefactions . For murder , though it have no tongue , will speak With most miraculous organ . I 'll have these players Play something like the murder of my father Before mine uncle . I 'll observe his looks . I 'll tent him to the quick . If he do blench , I know my course . The spirit that I have seen
What follows , then , my lord ?
God - a - mercy , old heart , thou speak 'st cheerfully .
Lord , how my head aches ! What a head have I ! It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces . My back a ' t ' other side . Ah , my back , my back ! Beshrew your heart for sending me about , To catch my death with jaunting up and down !
Out o ' th ' moon , I do assure thee . I was the man i ' the moon when time was .
He is not his craft 's master . He doth not do it right . I remember at Mile End Green , when I lay at Clement 's Inn -- I was then Sir Dagonet in Arthur 's show -- there was a little quiver fellow , and he would manage you his piece thus . And he would about and about , and come you in , and come you in . " Rah , tah , tah , " would he say . " Bounce , " would he say , and away again would he go , and again would he come . I shall ne'er see such a fellow .
Do so and those musicians that shall play to you Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence , And straight they shall be here . Sit , and attend .
How many thousand of my poorest subjects Are at this hour asleep ! O sleep , O gentle sleep , Nature 's soft nurse , how have I frighted thee , That thou no more wilt weigh my eyelids down And steep my senses in forgetfulness ? Why rather , sleep , liest thou in smoky cribs , Upon uneasy pallets stretching thee And hushed with buzzing night - flies to thy slumber , Than in the perfumed chambers of the great , Under the canopies of costly state , And lull 'd with sound of sweetest melody ? O thou dull god , why liest thou with the vile In loathsome beds and leavest the kingly couch A watch - case or a common ' larum bell ? Wilt thou upon the high and giddy mast Seal up the shipboy 's eyes , and rock his brains In cradle of the rude imperious surge And in the visitation of the winds , Who take the ruffian billows by the top , Curling their monstrous heads and hanging them With deafening clamor in the slippery clouds That with the hurly death itself awakes ? Canst thou , O partial sleep , give thy repose To the wet sea - boy in an hour so rude ,
That thou shalt see the difference of our spirit , I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it . For half thy wealth , it is Antonio 's . The other half comes to the general state , Which humbleness may drive unto a fine .
What then ?
Well roared , Lion !
Be patient . They are friends , Ratcliffe and Lovell .
When the sun sets the air doth drizzle dew , But for the sunset of my brother 's son It rains downright . How now ? A conduit , girl ? What , still in tears , Evermore showering ? In one little body Thou counterfeit 'st a bark , a sea , a wind , For still thy eyes , which I may call the sea , Do ebb and flow with tears . The bark thy body is , Sailing in this salt flood . The winds thy sighs , Who , raging with thy tears , and they with them , Without a sudden calm will overset Thy tempest-tossed body . --How now , wife ? Have you delivered to her our decree ?
What do you call him ?
Serve you , sir .
Darkness and devils ! Saddle my horses . Call my train together . -- Degenerate bastard , I 'll not trouble thee . Yet have I left a daughter .
His letters bear his mind , not I , my lord .
A plague upon you , murderers , traitors all ! I might have saved her . Now she 's gone for ever . -- Cordelia , Cordelia , stay a little . Ha ? What is ' t thou say'st?- -Her voice was ever soft , Gentle and low , an excellent thing in woman . -- I killed the slave that was a - hanging thee .
You do advance your cunning more and more . When truth kills truth , O devilish holy fray ! These vows are Hermia 's . Will you give her o'er ? Weigh oath with oath , and you will nothing weigh . Your vows to her and me , put in two scales , Will even weigh , and both as light as tales .
Well met , my lord . I am glad to see your Honor .
I myself have all the other , And the very ports they blow , All the quarters that they know I ' th ' shipman 's card . I 'll drain him dry as hay . Sleep shall neither night nor day Hang upon his penthouse lid . He shall live a man forbid . Weary sev'nnights nine times nine Shall he dwindle , peak and pine .
Why then , the mustard without the beef .
I 'll talk a word with this same learned Theban . -- What is your study ?
' Tis well ; and hold your own , in any case , With such austerity as ' longeth to a father .
All three of them are desperate . Their great guilt , Like poison given to work a great time after , Now ' gins to bite the spirits . I do beseech you That are of suppler joints , follow them swiftly And hinder them from what this ecstasy May now provoke them to .
My lord , I hold my life as dear as you do yours , And never in my days , I do protest , Was it so precious to me as ' tis now . Think you but that I know our state secure , I would be so triumphant as I am ?
My lord , I found the Prince in the next room , Washing with kindly tears his gentle cheeks , With such a deep demeanor in great sorrow That tyranny , which never quaffed but blood , Would , by beholding him , have washed his knife With gentle eyedrops . He is coming hither .
I would learn that . For by the marks Of sovereignty , knowledge , and reason , I should be false persuaded I had daughters .
My lord , the roinish clown , at whom so oft Your Grace was wont to laugh , is also missing . Hisperia , the Princess ' gentlewoman , Confesses that she secretly o'erheard Your daughter and her cousin much commend The parts and graces of the wrestler That did but lately foil the sinewy Charles , And she believes wherever they are gone That youth is surely in their company .
It is both he and she : Your son and daughter .
Madam ?
But how , but how ? Give me particulars .
No , good swabber , I am to hull here a little longer . Some mollification for your giant , sweet lady .
New honors come upon him , Like our strange garments , cleave not to their mold But with the aid of use .
I extend my hand to him thus , quenching my familiar smile with an austere regard of control --
How now , sir ? You villain !
But he hath forced us to compel this offer ; And it proceeds from policy , not love .
Bring them before us .
There , Diomed , there .
What shall become of this ? What will this do ?
One , sir , that for his love dares yet do more Than you have heard him brag to you he will .
I am .
Let not thy mother lose her prayers , Hamlet . I pray thee , stay with us . Go not to Wittenberg .
I am aweary . Give me leave awhile . Fie , how my bones ache ! What a jaunt have I !
How does my wife ?
With her , on her , what you will .
I say it is the moon that shines so bright .
In so high a style , Margaret , that no man living shall come over it , for in most comely truth thou deservest it .
Would it be better , madam , than I am ? I wish it might , for now I am your fool .
Be thou assured , if words be made of breath And breath of life , I have no life to breathe What thou hast said to me .
Good morrow to you both .
No , I pray thee speak in sober judgment .
But entertain it , And , though thou think me poor , I am the man Will give thee all the world .
I love no chiders , sir . Biondello , let 's away .
Ay , ' twas he that told me on her first . An honest man he is , and hates the slime That sticks on filthy deeds .
Come here , Pistol , stand behind me . -- O , if I had had time to have made new liveries , I would have bestowed the thousand pound I borrowed of you . But ' tis no matter . This poor show doth better . This doth infer the zeal I had to see him .
Then saw you not his face ?
Peace , I say ! What should this mean ?
Come , Kate , thou art perfect in lying down . Come , quick , quick , that I may lay my head in thy lap .
I will incontinently drown myself .
The one of them contains my picture , Prince . If you choose that , then I am yours withal .
Since I saw you last There 's a change upon you .
Then is the world one .
Whence came you , sir ?
Most sovereign creature --
He is not here .
O Lord , I must laugh . Have at you with a proverb : shall I set in my staff ?
Will you come to bed , my lord ?
There came divers of Antonio 's creditors in my company to Venice that swear he cannot choose but break .
Unless for that , my liege , I cannot guess .
I 'll fetch them , sir .
Nothing but this : your true love for my master .
Who comes here ?
What is thy news then ?
Ay , and wisely .
He purposeth to Athens , whither , with what haste The weight we must convey with 's will permit , We shall appear before him . On , there . Pass along !
Guess at her years , I prithee .
To Caesar will I render My legions and my horse . Six kings already Show me the way of yielding .
Sir , I will walk here in the hall . If it please His Majesty , ' tis the breathing time of day with me . Let the foils be brought , the gentleman willing , and the king hold his purpose . I will win for him an I can . If not , I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits .
Fiddler , forbear . You grow too forward , sir . Have you so soon forgot the entertainment Her sister Katherina welcomed you withal ?
What would you with her , sir ?
Come , sir , arise , away ! I 'll teach you differences . Away , away . If you will measure your lubber 's length again , tarry . But away , go to . Have you wisdom ? So .
Hang thee , young baggage ! Disobedient wretch ! I tell thee what : get thee to church o ' Thursday , Or never after look me in the face . Speak not . Reply not . Do not answer me . My fingers itch . --Wife , we scarce thought us blest That God had lent us but this only child , But now I see this one is one too much And that we have a curse in having her . Out on her , hilding !
This gentleman , the Prince 's near ally , My very friend , hath got his mortal hurt In my behalf . My reputation stained With Tybalt 's slander . --Tybalt , that an hour Hath been my kinsman ! O sweet Juliet , Thy beauty hath made me effeminate And in my temper softened valor 's steel !
Had you not been their father , these white flakes Did challenge pity of them . Was this a face To be opposed against the warring winds ? To stand against the deep dread - bolted thunder In the most terrible and nimble stroke Of quick cross lightning ? To watch -- poor perdu ! -- With this thin helm ? Mine enemy 's meanest dog , Though he had bit me , should have stood that night Against my fire . And wast thou fain , poor father , To hovel thee with swine and rogues forlorn In short and musty straw ? Alack , alack ! ' Tis wonder that thy life and wits at once Had not concluded all . --He wakes . Speak to him .
A rhyme I learned even now Of one I danced withal .
I must entreat of you some of that money .
Marry , sir , because silver hath a sweet sound .
There 's no art To find the mind 's construction in the face . He was a gentleman on whom I built An absolute trust .
Heavens keep him from these beasts ! For he is , sure , i ' th ' island .
Nay , either tell me where thou hast been , or I will not open my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in way of thy excuse . My lady will hang thee for thy absence .
Captain Macmorris , when there is more better opportunity to be required , look you , I will be so bold as to tell you I know the disciplines of war , and there is an end .
Thou art a soldier only . Speak no more .
Talk not to me , for I 'll not speak a word . Do as thou wilt , for I have done with thee .
No , Lepidus , let him speak . The honor is sacred which he talks on now , Supposing that I lacked it . --But , on , Caesar . The article of my oath ?
Je te prie , m'enseignez . Il faut que j' apprenne a parler . Comment appelez-vous la main en anglais ?
If I do , fillip me with a three-man beetle . A man can no more separate age and covetousness than he can part young limbs and lechery ; but the gout galls the one , and the pox pinches the other , and so both the degrees prevent my curses . --Boy!
Will Caesar speak ?
' Tis not the first time I have constrained one to call me " knave . " Begin , Fool . It begins " Hold thy peace . "
" Then " is spoken . Fare you well now . And yet , ere I go , let me go with that I came , which is , with knowing what hath passed between you and Claudio .
I spake with one , my lord , that came from thence , A gentleman well bred and of good name , That freely rendered me these news for true .
Go to , go to . --Come hither , sir .
How now , Varrius ?
Our overplus of shipping will we burn , And with the rest full - manned , from th ' head of Actium Beat th ' approaching Caesar . But if we fail , We then can do ' t at land .
If you use them , Margaret , you must put in the pikes with a vice , and they are dangerous weapons for maids .
The thane of Fife had a wife . Where is she now?- -What , will these hands ne'er be clean?- -No more o ' that , my lord , no more o ' that . You mar all with this starting .
Marry , that with no man here he is offended , For were he , he had shown it in his looks .
How now , my dear Othello ? Your dinner , and the generous islanders By you invited , do attend your presence .
Nothing that I respect , my gracious lord .
A friendly eye could never see such faults .
What would you more?- -Pompey , good night . Good brother , Let me request you off . Our graver business Frowns at this levity . --Gentle lords , let 's part . You see we have burnt our cheeks . Strong Enobarb Is weaker than the wine ; and mine own tongue Splits what it speaks . The wild disguise hath almost Anticked us all . What needs more words ? Good night . Good Antony , your hand .
Come in , Titinius . --Welcome , good Messala ! Now sit we close about this taper here And call in question our necessities .
Thought and affliction , passion , hell itself , She turns to favor and to prettiness .
What the goodyear , my lord , why are you thus out of measure sad ?
Ay , my lord .
Prithee , peace : I dare do all that may become a man ; Who dares do more is none .
The king my father ? !
But new struck nine .
Well , that is the dowry of his wife ; ' tis none of his own getting . Horns ? Even so . Poor men alone ? No , no . The noblest deer hath them as huge as the rascal . Is the single man therefore blessed ? No. As a walled town is more worthier than a village , so is the forehead of a married man more honorable than the bare brow of a bachelor . And by how much defense is better than no skill , by so much is a horn more precious than to want .
Bad news , my lord . Morton is fled to Richmond , And Buckingham , backed with the hardy Welshmen , Is in the field , and still his power increaseth .
Do you not come your tardy son to chide , That , lapsed in time and passion , lets go by The important acting of your dread command ? O , say !
Poor painted queen , vain flourish of my fortune , Why strew 'st thou sugar on that bottled spider , Whose deadly web ensnareth thee about ? Fool , fool , thou whet 'st a knife to kill thyself . The day will come that thou shalt wish for me To help thee curse that poisonous bunch - backed toad .
O braggart vile and damned furious wight , The grave doth gape , and doting death is near . Therefore exhale .
Petruchio , shall I then come roundly to thee And wish thee to a shrewd , ill - favored wife ? Thou'dst thank me but a little for my counsel ; And yet I 'll promise thee she shall be rich , And very rich . But thou'rt too much my friend , And I 'll not wish thee to her .
What an if you do ?
Oh , rare for Antony !
How now , spirit ? Whither wander you ?
Go to . You are not , Cassius .
Nothing , neither way .
Thou troublest me ; I am not in the vein .
I dare lay any money ' twill be nothing yet .
On what occasion God He knows , not I , The queen your mother and your brother York Have taken sanctuary . The tender prince Would fain have come with me to meet your Grace , But by his mother was perforce withheld .
Go to . Peace , Mouldy . You shall go . Mouldy , it is time you were spent .
How now , brother Edmund ? What serious contemplation are you in ?
He 'll lead me , then , in triumph .
I 'll meet you at that place some hour hence .
Are you there , wife ? You might have come before .
Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villainy should be so rich . For when rich villains have need of poor ones , poor ones may make what price they will .
Faith , I can tell her age unto an hour .
Come , come , you wasp . I ' faith , you are too angry .
Ay , marry , what is he ?
' Tis not a year or two shows us a man . They are all but stomachs , and we all but food . To eat us hungerly , and when they are full , They belch us . Look you , Cassio and my husband !
Not know me yet ?
O mechante Fortune ! Do not run away .
Call in the Sheriff .
That I love her , I feel .
I would the state of time had first been whole Ere he by sickness had been visited . His health was never better worth than now .
" Odors , " " pregnant , " and " vouchsafed . " I 'll get ' em all three all ready .
I cannot tell . I fear ' tis choleric . What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ?
No , Antony , My mistress loved thee , and her fortunes mingled With thine entirely .
By my troth , and in good earnest , and so God mend me , and by all pretty oaths that are not dangerous , if you break one jot of your promise or come one minute behind your hour , I will think you the most pathetical break - promise and the most hollow lover and the most unworthy of her you call Rosalind that may be chosen out of the gross band of the unfaithful . Therefore beware my censure , and keep your promise .
No , pray thee . I must obey . His art is of such power , It would control my dam 's god , Setebos , And make a vassal of him .
There she appeared indeed , or my reporter devised well for her .
I pity you .
Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion ?
As nail in door . The things I speak are just .
The more pity that fools may not speak wisely what wise men do foolishly .
Take heed you dally not before your king , Lest He that is the supreme King of kings Confound your hidden falsehood , and award Either of you to be the other 's end .
Madam , here comes my lord .
Fear no colors . Go with me to dinner . --Come , Lieutenant Pistol . --Come , Bardolph . --I shall be sent for soon at night .
I prithee , gentle friend , Let thy fair wisdom , not thy passion , sway In this uncivil and unjust extent Against thy peace . Go with me to my house , And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks This ruffian hath botched up , that thou thereby Mayst smile at this . Thou shalt not choose but go . Do not deny . Beshrew his soul for me ! He started one poor heart of mine in thee .
And I am Brutus , Marcus Brutus , I ! Brutus , my country 's friend . Know me for Brutus !
Yes , you have seen Cassio and she together .
He came not through the chamber where we stayed .
Ay , sir , so his mother says , if I may believe her .
He was disposed to mirth , but on the sudden A Roman thought hath struck him . --Enobarbus!
Be not acknown on ' t , I have use for it . Go , leave me .
Brother , I 'll go and bring it thee .
You have made me offer Of Sicily , Sardinia . And I must Rid all the sea of pirates , then , to send Measures of wheat to Rome . This ' greed upon To part with unhacked edges and bear back Our targes undinted .
Swords out , and tilting one at other 's breasts In opposition bloody . I cannot speak Any beginning to this peevish odds , And would in action glorious I had lost Those legs that brought me to a part of it .
In such a night Stood Dido with a willow in her hand Upon the wild sea banks , and waft her love To come again to Carthage .
He made confession of you , And gave you such a masterly report For art and exercise in your defense , And for your rapier most especially , That he cried out ' twould be a sight indeed If one could match you . The 'scrimers of their nation , He swore , had had neither motion , guard , nor eye , If you opposed them . Sir , this report of his Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy That he could nothing do but wish and beg Your sudden coming o'er , to play with him . Now , out of this --
That you do think you are not what you are .
What wouldst thou write of me , if thou should 'st praise me ?
They did so , to th ' amazement of mine eyes That looked upon ' t . Here comes the good Macduff .
The Queen shall then have courtesy , so she Will yield us up ?
I left no ring with her . What means this lady ? Fortune forbid my outside have not charmed her ! She made good view of me , indeed so much That sure methought her eyes had lost her tongue , For she did speak in starts distractedly . She loves me , sure ! The cunning of her passion Invites me in this churlish messenger .
That is done too , sir . Only " Cover ! " is the word .
Though he be as good a gentleman as the devil is , as Lucifer and Beelzebub himself , it is necessary , look your Grace , that he keep his vow and his oath . If he be perjured , see you now , his reputation is as arrant a villain and a Jack Sauce as ever his black shoe trod upon God 's ground and His earth , in my conscience , la .
And look what notes and garments he doth give thee , Bring them , I pray thee , with imagined speed Unto the traject , to the common ferry Which trades to Venice . Waste no time in words , But get thee gone . I shall be there before thee .
For all this same , I 'll hide me hereabout . His looks I fear , and his intents I doubt .
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry . O , this is counter , you false Danish dogs !
If Signor Leonato be her father , she would not have his head on her shoulders for all Messina , as like him as she is .
The King hath many marching in his coats .
I shall do ' t .
' Tis neither here nor there .
Why , man , they did make love to this employment . They are not near my conscience . Their defeat Does by their own insinuation grow . ' Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes Between the pass and fell incensed points Of mighty opposites .
Ha , ha , ha !
And we mean well in going to this mask , But ' tis no wit to go .
What shall Cordelia speak ? Love , and be silent .
Yet --
As I learned , The night before there was no purpose in them Of this remove .
God let me not live , but I will murder your ruff for this .
I will be free from thee .
Room for Antony , most noble Antony !
Farewell , Cicero .
How now ? Where 's the king ?
And so have I a noble father lost , A sister driven into desperate terms , Whose worth , if praises may go back again , Stood challenger on mount of all the age For her perfections . But my revenge will come .
Padua affords this kindness , son Petruchio .
What didst thou lose , Jack ?
Beshrew me , if I would do such a wrong For the whole world .
Fortune and victory sit on thy helm !
If any man doubt that , let him put me to my purgation . I have trod a measure . I have flattered a lady . I have been politic with my friend , smooth with mine enemy . I have undone three tailors . I have had four quarrels , and like to have fought one .
This same is she , and I do give you her .
A most high miracle !
Where is thy power , then , to beat him back ? Where be thy tenants and thy followers ? Are they not now upon the western shore , Safe - conducting the rebels from their ships ?
O Tybalt , Tybalt , the best friend I had ! O courteous Tybalt ! Honest gentleman ! That ever I should live to see thee dead .
Perdie , your doors were locked , and you shut out .
Was this fair paper , this most goodly book , Made to write " whore " upon ? What committed ? Committed ? O thou public commoner ! I should make very forges of my cheeks That would to cinders burn up modesty Did I but speak thy deeds . What committed ? Heaven stops the nose at it and the moon winks , The bawdy wind that kisses all it meets Is hushed within the hollow mine of earth And will not hear ' t . What committed ! Impudent strumpet !
What was your dream , my lord ? I pray you tell me .
So well thy words become thee as thy wounds ; They smack of honor both . Go get him surgeons .
Prithee , no more . Let him come when he will , I will deny thee nothing .
Antonio is a good man .
Not so , neither . But know that I have tonight wooed Margaret , the Lady Hero 's gentlewoman , by the name of Hero . She leans me out at her mistress ' chamber window , bids me a thousand times good night . I tell this tale vilely . I should first tell thee how the Prince , Claudio and my master , planted and placed and possessed by my master Don John , saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter .
Now , by Apollo , King , Thou swear 'st thy gods in vain .

Brave Titinius ! -- Look whe ' er he have not crowned dead Cassius .
A certain queen to Caesar in a mattress .
The best in this kind are but shadows , and the worst are no worse if imagination amend them .
Go back again , thou slave , and fetch him home .
You , cousin . Within these ten days if that thou beest found So near our public court as twenty miles , Thou diest for it .
The forfeit , sovereign , of my servant 's life , Who slew today a riotous gentleman Lately attendant on the duke of Norfolk .
O Wall , full often hast thou heard my moans , For parting my fair Pyramus and me ! My cherry lips have often kissed thy stones , Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee .
It is offended .
Well , well , th ' event .
Most humbly do I take my leave , my lord .
Let 's ha ' t , good soldier .
Antonio and old Shylock , both stand forth .
I thank you , sir .
Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair .
Truly , and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow 's shadow .
He could not miss ' t .
To whom do you speak this ?
I had rather lose the battle than that sister Should loosen him and me .
Beshrew my heart , but I pity the man .
Oh , let us yet be merciful .
I thank you , doctor .
No. He 'll say ' twas done cowardly , when he wakes .
That eye my daughter lent her ; ' tis most true .
O heavens ! O wife , look how our daughter bleeds ! This dagger hath mista'en -- for , lo , his house Is empty on the back of Montague , And it mis - sheathed in my daughter 's bosom .
Shall I be tempted of the devil thus ?
So are the horses of the enemy In general journey - bated and brought low . The better part of ours are full of rest .
Romeo can , Though heaven cannot . O Romeo , Romeo ! Who ever would have thought it ? Romeo !
Blow , winds , and crack your cheeks ! Rage , blow ! You cataracts and hurricanoes , spout Till you have drenched our steeples , drowned the cocks ! You sulfurous and thought - executing fires , Vaunt - couriers of oak - cleaving thunderbolts , Singe my white head ! And thou , all - shaking thunder , Smite flat the thick rotundity o ' th ' world , Crack nature 's molds , all germens spill at once That make ingrateful man !
She never reprehended him but mildly When he demeaned himself rough , rude , and wildly . -- Why bear you these rebukes and answer not ?
He hath a great infection , sir , as one would say , to serve --
I know so . But , gentle Lady Anne , To leave this keen encounter of our wits And fall something into a slower method -- Is not the causer of the timeless deaths Of these Plantagenets , Henry and Edward , As blameful as the executioner ?
" He that is giddy thinks the world turns round " -- I pray you , tell me what you meant by that .
So I am free . Yet would not so have been , Durst I have done my will . O Cassius , Far from this country Pindarus shall run , Where never Roman shall take note of him .
Ay , with a heart as willing As bondage e' er of freedom . Here 's my hand .
I do beseech you , Though I perchance am vicious in my guess , As , I confess , it is my nature 's plague To spy into abuses , and oft my jealousy Shapes faults that are not , that your wisdom , From one that so imperfectly conceits , Would take no notice , nor build yourself a trouble Out of his scattering and unsure observance . It were not for your quiet nor your good ,
How chance the prophet could not at that time Have told me , I being by , that I should kill him ?
He , sir .
Have you got leave to go to shrift today ?
What , for being a puritan ? Thy exquisite reason , dear knight ?
Madam , do you . ' Tis fittest .
You may do so , but let it be so hasted that supper be ready at the farthest by five of the clock . See these letters delivered , put the liveries to making , and desire Gratiano to come anon to my lodging .
He will make the man mad , to make a woman of him .
Who 's there ?
There 's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony .
What 's here ? The portrait of a blinking idiot Presenting me a schedule ! I will read it . -- How much unlike art thou to Portia ! How much unlike my hopes and my deservings ! " Who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves " ! Did I deserve no more than a fool 's head ? Is that my prize ? Are my deserts no better ?
What out of this , my lord ?
These times of woe afford no time to woo . Madam , good night . Commend me to your daughter .
And is old Dooble dead ?
No , nor mine now . My lord , you played once i ' th ' university , you say ?
Ay , but these English are shrewdly out of beef .
I will deny thee nothing ! Whereon I do beseech thee , grant me this , To leave me but a little to myself .
So it appears by that I have to say . First , he commends him to your noble self .
Ah , how much might the man deserve of me that would right her !
Though age from folly could not give me freedom , It does from childishness . Can Fulvia die ?
Turn , hellhound , turn !
What say 'st thou , noble heart ?
And I.
Pronounce that sentence then on me , my liege . I cannot live out of her company .
A good sherris sack hath a two-fold operation in it . It ascends me into the brain , dries me there all the foolish and dull and crury vapors which environ it , makes it apprehensive , quick , forgetive , full of nimble , fiery , and delectable shapes , which , delivered o'er to the voice , the tongue , which is the birth , becomes excellent wit . The second property of your excellent sherris is the warming of the blood , which , before cold and settled , left the liver white and pale , which is the badge of pusillanimity and cowardice . But the sherris warms it and makes it course from the inwards to the parts ' extremes . It illumineth the face , which as a beacon gives warning to all the rest of this little kingdom , man , to arm ; and then the vital commoners and inland petty spirits muster me all to their captain , the heart , who , great and puffed up with this retinue , doth any deed of courage , and this valor comes of sherris . So that skill in the weapon is nothing without sack , for that sets it a - work; and learning a mere hoard of gold kept by a devil till sack commences it and sets it in act and use . Hereof comes it that Prince Harry is valiant , for the cold blood he did naturally inherit of his father he hath , like lean , sterile , and bare land , manured , husbanded , and tilled with excellent endeavor of drinking good and good store of fertile sherris , that he is become very hot and valiant . If I had a thousand sons , the first human principle I would teach them should be to forswear thin potations and to addict themselves to sack .
Alas , poor shepherd , searching of thy wound , I have by hard adventure found mine own .
What , will you murder me?- -Thou jailer , thou , I am thy prisoner . Wilt thou suffer them To make a rescue ?
Here , here comes Master Signior Leonato , and the Sexton too .
I pray thee , do not mock me , fellow student . I think it was to see my mother 's wedding .
The king , sir , hath laid that in a dozen passes between yourself and him , he shall not exceed you three hits . He hath laid on twelve for nine , and it would come to immediate trial if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer .
It was the copy of our conference . In bed he slept not for my urging it ; At board he fed not for my urging it . Alone , it was the subject of my theme ; In company I often glanced it . Still did I tell him it was vile and bad .
God 's will and His pleasure , Captain , I beseech you now , come apace to the king . There is more good toward you peradventure than is in your knowledge to dream of .
Art thou his father ?
O ruined piece of nature ! This great world Shall so wear out to naught . Dost thou know me ?
Here , Peter Quince .
Both , both , my girl . By foul play , as thou sayst , were we heaved thence , But blessedly holp hither .
In my school days , when I had lost one shaft , I shot his fellow of the selfsame flight The selfsame way with more advised watch To find the other forth -- and by adventuring both , I oft found both . I urge this childhood proof Because what follows is pure innocence . I owe you much , and , like a willful youth , That which I owe is lost . But if you please To shoot another arrow that self way Which you did shoot the first , I do not doubt , As I will watch the aim , or to find both Or bring your latter hazard back again And thankfully rest debtor for the first .
Speak the speech , I pray you , as I pronounced it to you , trippingly on the tongue . But if you mouth it , as many of your players do , I had as lief the town crier spoke my lines . Nor do not saw the air too much with your hand thus , but use all gently , for in the very torrent , tempest , and whirlwind of passion , you must acquire and beget a temperance that may give it smoothness . Oh , it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters , to very rags , to split the ears of the groundlings , who for the most part are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb - shows and noise . I would have such a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant . It out - Herods Herod . Pray you , avoid it .
It were well The general were put in mind of it . Perhaps he sees it not , or his good nature Prizes the virtue that appears in Cassio And looks not on his evils . Is not this true ?
Ere I ope his letter , I pray you tell me how my good friend doth .
Petruchio is my name , Antonio 's son , A man well known throughout all Italy .
Full of wise care is this your counsel , madam . Take all the swift advantage of the hours . You shall have letters from me to my son In your behalf , to meet you on the way . Be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay .
And you are well met , Signior Hortensio . Trow you whither I am going ? To Baptista Minola . I promised to enquire carefully About a schoolmaster for the fair Bianca , And by good fortune I have lighted well On this young man , for learning and behavior Fit for her turn , well read in poetry And other books -- good ones , I warrant ye .
Now , as I am a Christian , answer me In what safe place you have bestowed my money , Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours That stands on tricks when I am undisposed . Where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me ?
She that would be your wife now ran from you .
Why , so hath this , both by the father and mother .
A crutch , a crutch ! Why call you for a sword ?
The will ! The testament !
We will speak further .
Ha , good father , Thou seest the heavens , as troubled with man 's act , Threatens his bloody stage . By th ' clock ' tis day , And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp . Is ' t night 's predominance or the day 's shame That darkness does the face of Earth entomb When living light should kiss it ?
Why , thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit .
News , madam . The British powers are marching hitherward .
Thou liest . Thou canst not .
Come , cousin , canst thou quake and change thy color , Murder thy breath in the middle of a word , And then begin again , and stop again , As if thou wert distraught and mad with terror ?
Most worthy gentleman , I and my friend Have by your wisdom been this day acquitted Of grievous penalties , in lieu whereof Three thousand ducats due unto the Jew We freely cope your courteous pains withal .
The more I love , the more he hateth me .
How 'scaped I killing when I crossed you so ? O insupportable and touching loss ! Upon what sickness ?
Away towards Salisbury ! While we reason here , A royal battle might be won and lost . Someone take order Buckingham be brought To Salisbury . The rest march on with me .
O serpent heart hid with a flowering face ! Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave ? Beautiful tyrant ! Fiend angelical ! Dove - feathered raven , wolvish-ravening lamb ! Despised substance of divinest show , Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st . A damned saint , an honorable villain ! O nature , what hadst thou to do in hell When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend In moral paradise of such sweet flesh ? Was ever book containing such vile matter So fairly bound ? Oh , that deceit should dwell In such a gorgeous palace !
Be warned by me , then : they that ride so , and ride not warily , fall into foul bogs . I had rather have my horse to my mistress .
Bear with me , I am hungry for revenge , And now I cloy me with beholding it . Thy Edward he is dead , that killed my Edward , Thy other Edward dead , to quit my Edward ; Young York , he is but boot , because both they Matched not the high perfection of my loss . Thy Clarence he is dead that stabbed my Edward , And the beholders of this frantic play , Th ' adulterate Hastings , Rivers , Vaughan , Grey , Untimely smothered in their dusky graves . Richard yet lives , hell 's black intelligencer , Only reserved their factor to buy souls And send them thither . But at hand , at hand Ensues his piteous and unpitied end . Earth gapes , hell burns , fiends roar , saints pray , To have him suddenly conveyed from hence . Cancel his bond of life , dear God I pray , That I may live to say , " The dog is dead . "
Base tyke , call' st thou me host ? Now , by this hand , I swear , I scorn the term , Nor shall my Nell keep lodgers .
A sail , a sail !
Why might not you , my lord , receive attendance From those that she calls servants , or from mine ?
What a caterwauling do you keep here ! If my lady have not called up her steward Malvolio and bid him turn you out of doors , never trust me .
Even those you were wont to take delight in , the tragedians of the city .
You have no reason . I do it freely .
There is means , madam . Our foster nurse of nature is repose , The which he lacks -- that to provoke in him Are many simples operative , whose power Will close the eye of anguish .
I know no answer .
Ay , on mine honor .
A knave , a rascal , an eater of broken meats ; a base , proud , shallow , beggarly , three - suited , hundred - pound , filthy , worsted - stocking knave ; a lily - livered , action - taking knave ; a whoreson , glass - gazing , super - serviceable finical rogue ; one - trunk - inheriting slave ; one that wouldst be a bawd in way of good service ; and art nothing but the composition of a knave , beggar , coward , pander , and the son and heir of a mongrel bitch ; one whom I will beat into clamorous whining if thou deniest the least syllable of thy addition .
My lord , I will not .
Into the air , and what seemed corporal Melted , as breath into the wind . Would they had stayed .
Oh , widow Dido ? Ay , widow Dido .
An earnest conjuration from the king , As England was his faithful tributary , As love between them like the palm might flourish , As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear And stand a comma ' tween their amities , And many suchlike " as 's " of great charge , That , on the view and knowing of these contents , Without debatement further , more or less , He should the bearers put to sudden death , Not shriving time allowed .
A play there is , my lord , some ten words long , Which is as brief as I have known a play . But by ten words , my lord , it is too long , Which makes it tedious . For in all the play There is not one word apt , one player fitted . And tragical , my noble lord , it is . For Pyramus therein doth kill himself . Which , when I saw rehearsed , I must confess , Made mine eyes water -- but more merry tears The passion of loud laughter never shed .
He hath indeed , almost natural , for besides that he 's a fool , he 's a great quarreler , and but that he hath the gift of a coward to allay the gust he hath in quarreling , ' tis thought among the prudent he would quickly have the gift of a grave .
And your experience makes you sad . I had rather have a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad -- and to travel for it , too .
Boy !
Good morrow , friends . Saint Valentine is past .
Well then , go you into hell ?
Oh , my dear Cassio ! My sweet Cassio ! O Cassio , Cassio , Cassio !
By my troth , 's not so good , and I warrant your cousin will say so .
Not yet old enough for a man , nor young enough for a boy , as a squash is before ' tis a peascod , or a codling when ' tis almost an apple . ' Tis with him in standing water , between boy and man . He is very well - favored , and he speaks very shrewishly . One would think his mother 's milk were scarce out of him .
This is the foul fiend Flibbertigibbet . He begins at curfew and walks till the first cock . He gives the web and the pin , squints the eye and makes the harelip , mildews the white wheat and hurts the poor creature of earth . Swithold footed thrice the ' old . He met the nightmare and her ninefold , Bid her alight , And her troth plight . And aroint thee , witch , aroint thee !
How now , what hath befall'n ?
Nay , I 'll come . If I lose a scruple of this sport , let me be boiled to death with melancholy .
What , and stake down ?
Faith , no , he comes too late , And so tell your master .
I will redeem all this on Percy 's head , And , in the closing of some glorious day , Be bold to tell you that I am your son , When I will wear a garment all of blood And stain my favors in a bloody mask , Which , washed away , shall scour my shame with it . And that shall be the day , whene'er it lights , That this same child of honor and renown , This gallant Hotspur , this all - praised knight , And your unthought - of Harry chance to meet . For every honor sitting on his helm , Would they were multitudes , and on my head My shames redoubled ! For the time will come That I shall make this northern youth exchange His glorious deeds for my indignities . Percy is but my factor , good my lord , To engross up glorious deeds on my behalf . And I will call him to so strict account That he shall render every glory up , Yea , even the slightest worship of his time , Or I will tear the reckoning from his heart . This in the name of God I promise here , The which if He be pleased I shall perform , I do beseech your Majesty may salve The long - grown wounds of my intemperance . If not , the end of life cancels all bands , And I will die a hundred thousand deaths Ere break the smallest parcel of this vow .
Hero thinks surely she will die , for she says she will die if he love her not , and she will die ere she make her love known , and she will die if he woo her rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness .
Come , ' tis no matter . Do not you meddle . Let me deal in this .
A sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch , Past speaking of in a king . Thou hast a daughter Who redeems nature from the general curse Which twain have brought her to .
And when I have heard it , what blessing brings it ?
I pray thee , peace . I will be flesh and blood , For there was never yet philosopher That could endure the toothache patiently , However they have writ the style of gods And made a push at chance and sufferance .
I will cap that proverb with " There is flattery in friendship . "
Stoop , then , and wash .
You all look strangely on me . And you most . You are , I think , assured I love you not .
No doubt they rose up early to observe The rite of May , and hearing our intent Came here in grace our solemnity . But speak , Egeus . Is not this the day That Hermia should give answer of her choice ?
There 's letters sealed , and my two schoolfellows , Whom I will trust as I will adders fanged , They bear the mandate . They must sweep my way And marshal me to knavery . Let it work , For ' tis the sport to have the engineer Hoist with his own petard . And ' t shall go hard , But I will delve one yard below their mines , And blow them at the moon . Oh , ' tis most sweet When in one line two crafts directly meet . This man shall set me packing . I 'll lug the guts into the neighbor room . Mother , good night . Indeed this counselor Is now most still , most secret , and most grave Who was in life a foolish prating knave . -- Come , sir , to draw toward an end with you . -- Good night , mother .
My lord , I claim the gift , my due by promise , For which your honor and your faith is pawned -- Th ' earldom of Hereford and the movables Which you promised I shall possess .
Thou art a villain to impeach me thus . I 'll prove mine honor and mine honesty Against thee presently if thou dar 'st stand .
Is this true , Nerissa ?
So please your grace , my ancient . A man he is of honesty and trust . To his conveyance I assign my wife , With what else needful your good grace shall think To be sent after me .
Awaked you not in this sore agony ?
Right , I mean you .
The worthy thane of Ross .
With you , goodman boy , if you please . Come , I 'll flesh ye . Come on , young master .
About the ninth hour , lady .
Wilt thou at Ninny 's tomb meet me straightway ?
Well , how then ? Come , roundly , roundly .
Then fate o'errules that , one man holding troth , A million fail , confounding oath on oath .
If I were sawed into quantities , I should make four dozen of such bearded hermits ' staves as Master Shallow . It is a wonderful thing to see the semblable coherence of his men 's spirits and his . They , by observing of him , do bear themselves like foolish justices ; he , by conversing with them , is turned into a justice - like servingman . Their spirits are so married in conjunction with the participation of society that they flock together in consent like so many wild geese . If I had a suit to Master Shallow , I would humor his men with the imputation of being near their master ; if to his men , I would curry with Master Shallow that no man could better command his servants . It is certain that either wise bearing or ignorant carriage is caught , as men take diseases , one of another . Therefore let men take heed of their company . I will devise matter enough out of this Shallow to
I never knew woman love man so .
There is a willow grows aslant a brook That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream . There with fantastic garlands did she come Of crowflowers , nettles , daisies , and long purples , That liberal shepherds give a grosser name , But our cold maids do " dead men 's fingers " call them . There , on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds Clambering to hang , an envious sliver broke , When down her weedy trophies and herself Fell in the weeping brook . Her clothes spread wide , And mermaid - like a while they bore her up , Which time she chanted snatches of old lauds As one incapable of her own distress , Or like a creature native and indued Unto that element . But long it could not be Till that her garments , heavy with their drink , Pulled the poor wretch from her melodious lay To muddy death .
If to have done the thing you gave in charge Beget your happiness , be happy then , For it is done .
More knocking at the door ?
All things is ready . How near is our master ?
That , being mad herself , she 's madly mated .
Oh , ' tis foul in her .
Welcome hither . Your letters did withhold our breaking forth Till we perceived both how you were wrong led And we in negligent danger . Cheer your heart . Be you not troubled with the time , which drives O ' er your content these strong necessities , But let determined things to destiny Hold unbewailed their way . Welcome to Rome , Nothing more dear to me . You are abused Beyond the mark of thought , and the high gods , To do you justice , makes his ministers Of us and those that love you . Best of comfort , And ever welcome to us .
Then to the point . In short time after , he deposed the King , Soon after that deprived him of his life And , in the neck of that , tasked the whole state . To make that worse , suffered his kinsman March ( Who is , if every owner were well placed , Indeed his king ) to be engaged in Wales , There without ransom to lie forfeited , Disgraced me in my happy victories , Sought to entrap me by intelligence , Rated mine uncle from the council board , In rage dismissed my father from the court , Broke oath on oath , committed wrong on wrong , And in conclusion drove us to seek out This head of safety , and withal to pry Into his title , the which we find Too indirect for long continuance .
That you must teach me . But let me conjure you , by the rights of our fellowship , by the consonancy of our youth , by the obligation of our ever - preserved love , and by what more dear a better proposer could charge you withal : be even and direct with me whether you were sent for or no .
But who comes here ? The safer sense will ne'er accommodate His master thus .
Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy . This wide and universal theater Presents more woeful pageants than the scene Wherein we play in .
The knave counterfeits well . A good knave .
Bring in the banquet quickly . Wine enough Cleopatra 's health to drink .
His death 's upon him , but not dead . Look out o ' th ' other side your monument . His guard have brought him thither .
What kind o ' man is he ?
My lord , upon the platform where we watch .
Alas , my lord , Your wisdom is consumed in confidence . Do not go forth today . Call it my fear That keeps you in the house , and not your own . We 'll send Mark Antony to the senate house , And he shall say you are not well today . Let me , upon my knee , prevail in this .
He knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo -- By the bad voice .
Ready to go , but never to return . O son ! The night before thy wedding day Hath death lain with thy wife . There she lies , Flower as she was , deflowered by him .
Fellows in arms , and my most loving friends , Bruised underneath the yoke of tyranny , Have we marched on without impediment , Thus far into the bowels of the land And here receive we from our father Stanley Lines of fair comfort and encouragement . The wretched , bloody , and usurping boar , That spoiled your summer fields and fruitful vines , Swills your warm blood like wash , and makes his trough In your embowelled bosoms -- this foul swine Is now even in the center of this isle , Near to the town of Leicester , as we learn . From Tamworth thither is but one day 's march . In God 's name , cheerly on , courageous friends , To reap the harvest of perpetual peace By this one bloody trial of sharp war .
Mistress !
Where is kind Hastings ?
For these two hours , Rosalind , I will leave thee .
I know it well . --What must I call her ?
Thus have you breathed your curse against yourself .
Then there were two cousins laid up , when the one should be lamed with reasons and the other mad without any .
May it please your Grace , Antipholus my husband , Whom I made lord of me and all I had At your important letters , this ill day A most outrageous fit of madness took him , That desp'rately he hurried through the street , With him his bondman , all as mad as he , Doing displeasure to the citizens By rushing in their houses , bearing thence Rings , jewels , any thing his rage did like . Once did I get him bound and sent him home Whilst to take order for the wrongs I went That here and there his fury had committed . Anon , I wot not by what strong escape , He broke from those that had the guard of him , And with his mad attendant and himself , Each one with ireful passion , with drawn swords , Met us again and , madly bent on us , Chased us away , till , raising of more aid , We came again to bind them . Then they fled Into this abbey , whither we pursued them , And here the Abbess shuts the gates on us And will not suffer us to fetch him out , Nor send him forth that we may bear him hence . Therefore , most gracious duke , with thy command Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help .
Oh , then belike she was old and gentle , and you rode , like a kern of Ireland , your French hose off and in your straight strossers .
She that I spake of , our great captain 's captain , Left in the conduct of the bold Iago , Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts A se'nnight 's speed . Great Jove , Othello guard , And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath , That he may bless this bay with his tall ship , Make love 's quick pants in Desdemona 's arms , Give renewed fire to our extincted spirits And bring all Cyprus comfort !
I think it be thine , indeed , for thou liest in ' t .
Wert thou not banished on pain of death ?
O , pardon , sir , it doth , and yon gray lines That fret the clouds are messengers of day .
Have I a tongue to doom my brother 's death , And shall the tongue give pardon to a slave ? My brother killed no man ; his fault was thought , And yet his punishment was bitter death . Who sued to me for him ? Who , in my wrath , Kneeled at my feet , and bade me be advised ? Who spoke of brotherhood ? Who spoke of love ? Who told me how the poor soul did forsake The mighty Warwick and did fight for me ? Who told me , in the field by Tewkesbury , When Oxford had me down , he rescued me , And said " Dear brother , live , and be a king " ? Who told me , when we both lay in the field Frozen almost to death , how he did lap me Even in his garments and did give himself , All thin and naked , to the numb - cold night ? All this from my remembrance brutish wrath Sinfully plucked , and not a man of you Had so much grace to put it in my mind . But when your carters or your waiting vassals Have done a drunken slaughter and defaced The precious image of our dear Redeemer , You straight are on your knees for pardon , pardon , And I , unjustly too , must grant it you . Stanley rises But for my brother , not a man would speak , Nor I , ungracious , speak unto myself For him , poor soul . The proudest of you all Have been beholding to him in his life , Yet none of you would once beg for his life . O God , I fear Thy justice will take hold On me and you , and mine and yours for this ! -- Come , Hastings , help me to my closet . -- Ah , poor Clarence .
By God 's sonties , ' twill be a hard way to hit . Can you tell me whether one Launcelot that dwells with him , dwell with him or no ?
Happy indeed , as we have spent the day . Gloucester , we have done deeds of charity , Made peace of enmity , fair love of hate , Between these swelling , wrong - incensed peers .
Do you bite your thumb at us , sir ?
Farewell , kinsman . I 'll talk to you When you are better tempered to attend .
One Angelo , a goldsmith . Do you know him ?
I will o'ertake thee , Cleopatra , and Weep for my pardon . So it must be , for now All length is torture . Since the torch is out , Lie down and stray no farther . Now all labor Mars what it does . Yea , very force entangles Itself with strength . Seal then , and all is done . -- Eros ! --I come , my Queen . --Eros! --Stay for me . Where souls do couch on flowers , we 'll hand in hand , And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze . Dido and her Aeneas shall want troops , And all the haunt be ours . --Come , Eros , Eros !
I thank thee , good Tubal . Good news , good news ! Ha , ha , heard in Genoa .
Why do you stay so long , my lords of France ? Yond island carrions , desperate of their bones , Ill - favoredly become the morning field . Their ragged curtains poorly are let loose , And our air shakes them passing scornfully . Big Mars seems bankrupt in their beggared host And faintly through a rusty beaver peeps .
Thus comes the English with full power upon us , And more than carefully it us concerns To answer royally in our defenses . Therefore the Dukes of Berri and of Brittany , Of Brabant and of Orleans , shall make forth , And you , Prince Dauphin , with all swift dispatch , To line and new - repair our towns of war With men of courage and with means defendant . For England his approaches makes as fierce As waters to the sucking of a gulf . It fits us then to be as provident As fear may teach us out of late examples Left by the fatal and neglected English Upon our fields .
Wilt thou rest damned ? God help thee , shallow man . God make incision in thee ; thou art raw .
Oppressed nature sleeps . -- This rest might yet have balmed thy broken sinews , Which , if convenience will not allow , Stand in hard cure . Come , help to bear thy master . Thou must not stay behind .
Take heed you fall not .
I pray you all , tell me what they deserve That do conspire my death with devilish plots Of damned witchcraft , and that have prevailed Upon my body with their hellish charms ?
Say , what beast , thou knave , thou ?
We 'll wait upon you .
A good rebuke , Which might have well becomed the best of men , To taunt at slackness . --Canidius , we will fight With him by sea .
It is my arm .
Why , how now , cousin ! wherefore sink you down ?
Wilt thou be lord of all the world ?
Is ' t not denounced against us ? Why should not we Be there in person ?
A liberal hand . The hearts of old gave hands , But our new heraldry is hands , not hearts .
Say I do speak with her , my lord , what then ?
The slip , sir , the slip . Can you not conceive ?
Well , thou shalt see , thy eyes shall be thy judge , The difference of old Shylock and Bassanio . -- What , Jessica ! --Thou shalt not gormandize As thou hast done with me . --What , Jessica ! -- And sleep and snore , and rend apparel out -- Why , Jessica , I say !
Good sir , be patient .
The great contention of the sea and skies Parted our fellowship --
Help , son ! Help , Signior Baptista !
My lord of Burgundy . We first address towards you , who with this king Hath rivaled for our daughter . What in the least Will you require in present dower with her Or cease your quest of love ?
Are you sure of that ?
Let me live here ever . So rare a wondered father and a wife Makes this place paradise .
I did not think he had been acquainted with her .
By faith and honor , Our madams mock at us and plainly say Our mettle is bred out and they will give Their bodies to the lust of English youth To new-store France with bastard warriors .
Of what personage and years is he ?
A kind overflow of kindness . There are no faces truer than those that are so washed . How much better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping !
O gentle lady , ' Tis not for you to hear what I can speak : The repetition , in a woman 's ear , Would murder as it fell .
Well shone , Moon ! --Truly , the moon shines with a good grace .
I will attend my husband , be his nurse , Diet his sickness , for it is my office And will have no attorney but myself ; And therefore let me have him home with me .
Sawst thou the melancholy Lord Northumberland ?
If every ducat in six thousand ducats Were in six parts , and every part a ducat , I would not draw them . I would have my bond .
That 's our offer .
Madam , they are not yet , But there is come a messenger before To signify their coming .
This lanthorn doth the horned moon present . Myself the man i ' th ' moon do seem to be --
Nay , that 's impossible . She may wear her heart out first .
No , that you shall not till you take her hand Before this friar and swear to marry her .
Seigneur Valentio and his cousin Tybalt ; Lucio and the lively Helena . " A fair assembly . Whither should they come ?
Those are the raised father and his friends . You were best go in .
Admired Miranda ! Indeed the top of admiration , worth What 's dearest to th ' world ! Full many a lady I have eyed with best regard and many a time
And must they all be hanged that swear and lie ?
Take thy fair hour , Laertes . Time be thine , And thy best graces spend it at thy will . -- But now , my cousin Hamlet , and my son --
O most false love ! Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill With sorrowful water ? Now I see , I see , In Fulvia 's death how mine received shall be .
Ay , but their sense is shut .
No words , no words . Hush .
Then say at once what is it thou requests .
Why , then the maid is mine from all the world , By your firm promise . Gremio is outvied .
No money , on my faith , but the gleek . I will give you the minstrel .
And Benedick is not the unhopefulest husband that I know . Thus far can I praise him : he is of a noble strain , of approved valor , and confirmed honesty . I will teach you how to humor your cousin that she shall fall in love with Benedick . --And I , with your two helps , will so practice on Benedick that , in despite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach , he shall fall in love with Beatrice . If we can do this , Cupid is no longer an archer ; his glory shall be ours , for we are the only love gods . Go in with me , and I will tell you my drift .
I am a knight , sir , and my name is Colevile of the Dale .
The beds i ' th ' East are soft , and thanks to you , That called me timelier than my purpose hither , For I have gained by ' t .
Now , Harry , whence come you ?
Answer , thou dead elm , answer .
I see it in my motion , have it not in my tongue . But yet hie you to Egypt again .
How now , my Lord of Worcester ? ' Tis not well That you and I should meet upon such terms As now we meet . You have deceived our trust And made us doff our easy robes of peace To crush our old limbs in ungentle steel . This is not well , my lord ; this is not well . What say you to it ? Will you again unknit This curlish knot of all - abhorred war And move in that obedient orb again Where you did give a fair and natural light , And be no more an exhaled meteor , A prodigy of fear and a portent Of broached mischief to the unborn times ?
The prince of Cumberland ! That is a step On which I must fall down , or else o'erleap , For in my way it lies . Stars , hide your fires ; Let not light see my black and deep desires . The eye wink at the hand , yet let that be Which the eye fears , when it is done , to see .
Who does he accuse ?
If ever he have wife , let her be made More miserable by the death of him Than I am made by my poor lord and thee . -- Come now towards Chertsey with your holy load , Taken from Paul 's to be interred there .
" What is your parentage ? " " Above my fortunes , yet my state is well . I am a gentleman . " I 'll be sworn thou art ; Thy tongue , thy face , thy limbs , actions , and spirit , Do give thee fivefold blazon . Not too fast ! Soft , soft ! Unless the master were the man . How now ? Even so quickly may one catch the plague ? Methinks I feel this youth 's perfections With an invisible and subtle stealth To creep in at mine eyes . Well , let it be . -- What ho , Malvolio !
Pity me not , but lend thy serious hearing To what I shall unfold .
Hast thou not dropped from heaven ?
Why " with some little train , " my Lord of Buckingham ?
This is practice , Gloucester . By th ' law of arms thou wast not bound to answer An unknown opposite . Thou art not vanquished , But cozened and beguiled .
Well , I will call Beatrice to you , who I think hath legs .
A good varlet , a good varlet , a very good varlet , Sir John . By the Mass , I have drunk too much sack at supper . A good varlet . Now sit down , now sit down . --Come , cousin .
This I wonder at , That he , unknown to me , should be in debt . Tell me , was he arrested on a band ?
No child but Hero ; she 's his only heir . Dost thou affect her , Claudio ?
My Lord of Norfolk --
What art thou ?
Sir , I am made of that self mettle as my sister , And prize me at her worth . In my true heart , I find she names my very deed of love -- Only she comes too short , that I profess
God bless me from a challenge !
What is , my lord ?
My lord , he doth deny to come .
I think nothing , my lord .
It may be so , my lord . Hear , Nature , hear , dear goddess , hear ! Suspend thy purpose if thou didst intend To make this creature fruitful . Into her womb convey sterility . Dry up in her the organs of increase , And from her derogate body never spring A babe to honor her . If she must teem , Create her child of spleen , that it may live And be a thwart disnatured torment to her . Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth , With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks ,
Then stand with us . The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day . Now spurs the lated traveler apace To gain the timely inn , and near approaches The subject of our watch .
Thyself shalt see the act . For as thou urgest justice , be assured Thou shalt have justice more than thou desirest .
I will not rise unless your Highness hear me .
Myself have letters of the selfsame tenor .
As I suck blood , I will some mercy show . Follow me .
A murd'rous villain , and so still thou art .
My lord , I pray you , hear me .
But youth in ladies ' eyes that flourisheth .
Sir , understand you this of me , in sooth : The youngest daughter , whom you hearken for , Her father keeps from all access of suitors And will not promise her to any man Until the elder sister first be wed . The younger then is free , and not before .
To who , my lord?- -Who hath the office ? Send Thy token of reprieve .
I do not know , Maecenas . Ask Agrippa .
I wish him joy of her .
Heaven cease this idle humor in your Honor ! Oh , that a mighty man of such descent , Of such possessions and so high esteem , Should be infused with so foul a spirit !
You told a lie , an odious , damned lie . Upon my soul , a lie , a wicked lie . She false with Cassio ! Did you say with Cassio ?
I am bound to thee , reverend Feeble . --Who is next ?
Sir Topas , Sir Topas , good Sir Topas , go to my lady --
God save you , brother .
Caesar , thou art revenged , Even with the sword that killed thee .
Come , sweet Audrey . We must be married , or we must live in bawdry . --Farewell , good Master Oliver , not O sweet Oliver , O brave Oliver , Leave me not behind thee But Wind away , Begone , I say , I will not to wedding with thee .
Give me thy hand . To this great fairy I 'll commend thy acts , Make her thanks bless thee . O thou day o ' the world , Chain mine armed neck . Leap thou , attire and all , Through proof of harness to my heart , and there Ride on the pants triumphing !
We 'll set thee to school to an ant to teach thee there 's no laboring i ' th ' winter . All that follow their noses are led by their eyes but blind men , and there 's not a nose among twenty but can smell him that 's stinking . Let go thy hold when a great wheel runs down a hill , lest it break thy neck with following it .
And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut ?
If we offend , it is with our good will . That you should think we come not to offend , But with good will . To show our simple skill , That is the true beginning of our end . Consider then we come but in despite . We do not come as minding to contest you , Our true intent is . All for your delight We are not here . That you should here repent you , The actors are at hand , and by their show You shall know all that you are like to know .
Thou speak 'st with all thy wit ; and yet , i ' faith , With wit enough for thee .
Hold here , take this . Tell gentle Jessica I will not fail her . Speak it privately . -- Go , gentlemen , Will you prepare you for this masque tonight ? I am provided of a torchbearer .
Faith , gentlemen , now I play a merchant 's part , And venture madly on a desperate mart .
Your daughter spent in Genoa , as I heard , in one night fourscore ducats .
What shall we do else ? Were we not born under Taurus ?
How now , Tubal ? What news from Genoa ? Hast thou found my daughter ?
Even so , Lucillius .
Why , madam ?
Draw it .
Zounds , sir , you are one of those that will not serve God , if the devil bid you . Because we come to do you service and you think we are ruffians , you 'll have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse . You 'll have your nephews neigh to you . You 'll have coursers for cousins and gennets for germans .
He jests at scars that never felt a wound .
Send to his brother . Fetch that gallant hither . If he be absent , bring his brother to me . I 'll make him find him . Do this suddenly , And let not search and inquisition quail To bring again these foolish runaways .
Hold , Wart . Traverse . Thas , thas , thas .
Then hear me , gracious sovereign , and you peers That owe yourselves , your lives , and services To this imperial throne . There is no bar To make against your Highness ' claim to France But this , which they produce from Pharamond : " In terram Salicam mulieres ne succedant " , Which Salic land the French unjustly gloze To be the realm of France , and Pharamond The founder of this law and female bar . Yet their own authors faithfully affirm That the land Salic is in Germany , Between the floods of Sala and of Elbe , Where Charles the Great , having subdued the Saxons , There left behind and settled certain French , Who , holding in disdain the German women For some dishonest manners of their life , Established then this law : to wit , no female Should be inheritrix in Salic land , Which " Salic , " as I said , ' twixt Elbe and Sala Is at this day in Germany called Meissen . Then doth it well appear the Salic law Was not devised for the realm of France , Nor did the French possess the Salic land Until four hundred one and twenty years After defunction of King Pharamond , Idly supposed the founder of this law ; Who died within the year of our redemption Four hundred twenty - six; and Charles the Great Subdued the Saxons and did seat the French Beyond the river Sala in the year Eight hundred five . Besides , their writers say , King Pepin , which deposed Childeric , Did , as heir general , being descended Of Blithild , which was daughter to King Clothair , Make claim and title to the crown of France . Hugh Capet also , who usurped the crown Of Charles the duke of Lorraine , sole heir male Of the true line and stock of Charles the Great , To find his title with some shows of truth , Though in pure truth it was corrupt and naught , Conveyed himself as th ' heir to th ' Lady Lingare , Daughter to Charlemagne , who was the son To Lewis the Emperor , and Lewis the son Of Charles the Great . Also King Lewis the Tenth , Who was sole heir to the usurper Capet , Could not keep quiet in his conscience , Wearing the crown of France , till satisfied That fair Queen Isabel , his grandmother , Was lineal of the Lady Ermengare , Daughter to Charles the foresaid duke of Lorraine , By the which marriage the line of Charles the Great Was reunited to the crown of France . So that , as clear as is the summer 's sun , King Pepin 's title and Hugh Capet 's claim , King Lewis his satisfaction , all appear To hold in right and title of the female .
What is your pleasure ?
They have dispatched with Pompey ; he is gone . The other three are sealing . Octavia weeps To part from Rome . Caesar is sad , and Lepidus , Since Pompey 's feast , as Menas says , is troubled With the greensickness .
' Tis not a time for private stomaching .
Two households , both alike in dignity , From ancient grudge break to new mutiny , Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean . From forth the fatal loins of these two foes A pair of star-crossed lovers take their life , Whose misadventured piteous overthrows Doth with their death bury their parents ' strife . The fearful passage of their death - marked love And the continuance of their parents ' rage , Which , but their children 's end , naught could remove , Is now the two hours ' traffic of our stage -- The which , if you with patient ears attend , What here shall miss , our toil shall strive to mend .
Is it not like the king ?
Not true in love ?
Speak 'st thou in sober meanings ?
I do believe you think what now you speak , But what we do determine oft we break . Purpose is but the slave to memory , Of violent birth , but poor validity , Which now , like fruit unripe , sticks on the tree , But fall , unshaken , when they mellow be . Most necessary ' tis that we forget To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt . What to ourselves in passion we propose , The passion ending , doth the purpose lose . The violence of either grief or joy Their own enactures with themselves destroy . Where joy most revels , grief doth most lament . Grief joys , joy grieves on slender accident . This world is not for aye , nor ' tis not strange That even our loves should with our fortunes change . For ' tis a question left us yet to prove , Whether love lead fortune , or else fortune love . The great man down , you mark his favorite flies . The poor advanced makes friends of enemies . And hitherto doth love on fortune tend , For who not needs shall never lack a friend , And who in want a hollow friend doth try , Directly seasons him his enemy . But , orderly to end where I begun , Our wills and fates do so contrary run That our devices still are overthrown . Our thoughts are ours , their ends none of our own . So think thou wilt no second husband wed , But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead .
No , bear it with you lest I come not time enough .
Good my lord , take his offer . Go into the house .
By me ?
O , prenez misericorde ! Ayez pitie de moi !
The sun was not so true unto the day As he to me . Would he have stolen away From sleeping Hermia ? I 'll believe as soon This whole Earth may be bored , and that the moon May through the center creep and so displease Her brother 's noontide with th ' Antipodes . It cannot be but thou hast murdered him . So should a murderer look , so dead , so grim .
Oh ho , I know the riddle . --I will go .
You are merry , my lord .
' Tis figured in my tongue .
It will determine one way . Fare you well . Heard you of nothing strange about the streets ?
Death , that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail , Ties up my tongue and will not let me speak .
You were called " Lusty Shallow " then , cousin .
Fare you well . Do we but find the tyrant 's power tonight , Let us be beaten if we cannot fight .
Excellent .
The offence is not of such a bloody nature ; Albeit the quality of the time and quarrel Might well have given us bloody argument . It might have since been answered in repaying What we took from them , which , for traffic 's sake , Most of our city did . Only myself stood out ; For which , if I be lapsed in this place , I shall pay dear .
Pardon , master . I will be correspondent to command And do my spiriting gently .
Bade him anon return and here speak with me , The which he promised . Do but encave yourself , And mark the fleers , the gibes , and notable scorns That dwell in every region of his face . For I will make him tell the tale anew Where , how , how oft , how long ago , and when He hath , and is again to cope your wife . I say , but mark his gesture . Marry , patience , Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen , And nothing of a man .
Oh , my pardon !
How now , brother , where is my cousin , your son ? Hath he provided this music ?
I will not excuse you . You shall not be excused . Excuses shall not be admitted . There is no excuse shall serve . You shall not be excused . --Why , Davy !
Dead .
More pity that the eagle should be mewed While kites and buzzards prey at liberty .
My language ! Heavens , I am the best of them that speak this speech , Were I but where ' tis spoken .
The Earl of Westmoreland set forth today , With him my son , Lord John of Lancaster , For this advertisement is five days old . -- On Wednesday next , Harry , you shall set forward . On Thursday we ourselves will march . Our meeting Is Bridgenorth . And , Harry , you shall march Through Gloucestershire ; by which account , Our business valued , some twelve days hence Our general forces at Bridgenorth shall meet . Our hands are full of business . Let 's away . Advantage feeds him fat while men delay .
Excellent ! I smell a device .
Good day to both of you .
I think it freely , and betimes in the morning I will beseech the virtuous Desdemona to undertake for me . I am desperate of my fortunes if they check me .
That would I know too . I warrant , one that knows him not .
Stars , my lord .
He hath indeed a good outward happiness .
Am I made ?
O my dear Orlando , how it grieves me to see thee wear thy heart in a scarf .
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank ! Here will we sit and let the sounds of music Creep in our ears . Soft stillness and the night Become the touches of sweet harmony . Sit , Jessica . Look how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patens of bright gold . There 's not the smallest orb which thou behold 'st But in his motion like an angel sings , Still choiring to the young - eyed cherubins . Such harmony is in immortal souls , But whilst this muddy vesture of decay Doth grossly close it in , we cannot hear it .
I am satisfied in nature , Whose motive in this case should stir me most To my revenge . But in my terms of honor I stand aloof , and will no reconcilement Till by some elder masters , of known honor , I have a voice and precedent of peace To keep my name ungored . But till that time I do receive your offered love like love And will not wrong it .
Troth , I think your other rebato were better .
Clubs , bills , and partisans ! Strike ! Beat them down ! Down with the Capulets ! Down with the Montagues !
O sir , such a life with such a wife were strange ! But if you have a stomach , to ' t , i ' God 's name : You shall have me assisting you in all . But will you woo this wildcat ?
Fie , sir , fie !
So please you , he is here at the door and importunes access to you .
Blame not this haste of mine . If you mean well , Now go with me and with this holy man Into the chantry by . There , before him And underneath that consecrated roof , Plight me the full assurance of your faith , That my most jealous and too doubtful soul May live at peace . He shall conceal it Whiles you are willing it shall come to note , What time we will our celebration keep According to my birth . What do you say ?
Go thou to Richmond , and good fortune guide thee . Go thou to Richard , and good angels tend thee . Go thou to sanctuary , and good thoughts possess thee . I to my grave , where peace and rest lie with me . Eighty - odd years of sorrow have I seen , And each hour 's joy wracked with a week of teen .
Why did I marry ? This honest creature doubtless Sees and knows more , much more , than he unfolds .
Awake remembrance of these valiant dead And with your puissant arm renew their feats . You are their heir , you sit upon their throne , The blood and courage that renowned them Runs in your veins ; and my thrice - puissant liege Is in the very May - morn of his youth , Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises .
Oh , is that all ? What will you give me now For the same handkerchief ?
A thousand hearts are great within my bosom . Advance our standards . Set upon our foes . Our ancient word of courage , fair Saint George , Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons . Upon them ! Victory sits on our helms .
No , I say .
Can you tell for whose sake ?
Is she a Capulet ? O dear account ! My life is my foe 's debt .
Here is his Majesty .
Would ? Nay , and I will .
You 'll be made bring Deformed forth , I warrant you .
I think you are Sir John Falstaff , and in that thought yield me .
Farewell , kind lord . Fight valiantly today . And yet I do thee wrong to mind thee of it , For thou art framed of the firm truth of valor .
We shall be short in our provision . ' Tis now near night .
Twenty crowns ? I 'll venture so much of my hawk or hound , But twenty times so much upon my wife .
How do you , Cassio? --Oh , a chair , a chair !
You know sometimes he walks four hours together Here in the lobby .
Even that , I hope , which pleaseth God above And all good men of this ungoverned isle .
You are a spirit , I know . Where did you die ?
He will not say so .
Villain , thou know 'st not law of God nor man . No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity .
But did my brother set thee on to this ?
Let go thy hand .
That will never be . Who can impress the forest , bid the tree Unfix his earthbound root ? Sweet bodements ! Good ! Rebellious dead , rise never till the wood Of Birnam rise , and our high-placed Macbeth Shall live the lease of nature , pay his breath To time and mortal custom . Yet my heart Throbs to know one thing . Tell me , if your art Can tell so much : shall Banquo 's issue ever Reign in this kingdom ?
For Brutus ' sake , I am beholding to you .
Go , bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns .
By your patience , no . My stars shine darkly over me . The malignancy of my fate might perhaps distemper yours . Therefore I shall crave of you your leave that I may bear my evils alone . It were a bad recompense for your love to lay any of them on you .
A contagious breath .
Sir John , I prithee , leave the Prince and me alone . I will lay him down such reasons for this adventure that he shall go .
Bid her come hither . Go .
Bate , I beseech you , widow Dido .
You lie .
Why , what 's the matter ?
I mean , sir , in delay . We waste our lights in vain , like lights by day . Take our good meaning , for our judgment sits Five times in that ere once in our fine wits .
Let your highness Command upon me , to the which my duties Are with a most indissoluble tie Forever knit .
Well said . Come on ! Call forth my household servants .
' Tis certain there 's not a boy left alive , and the cowardly rascals that ran from the battle ha ' done this slaughter . Besides , they have burned and carried away all that was in the king 's tent , wherefore the king , most worthily , hath caused every soldier to cut his prisoner 's throat . Oh , ' tis a gallant king !
All thy other titles thou hast given away that thou wast born with .
Now does he feel His secret murders sticking on his hands . Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith - breach . Those he commands move only in command , Nothing in love . Now does he feel his title Hang loose about him , like a giant 's robe Upon a dwarfish thief .
Tomorrow , sir . Best first go see your lodging .
Three words , dear Romeo , and good night indeed . If that thy bent of love be honorable , Thy purpose marriage , send me word tomorrow By one that I 'll procure to come to thee Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite , And all my fortunes at thy foot I 'll lay And follow thee my lord throughout the world .
No more perchance does mine , nor his , nor hers .
My father 's love is enough to honor him . Enough . Speak no more of him ; you 'll be whipped for taxation one of these days .
Then down upon her knees she falls , weeps , sobs , beats her heart , tears her hair , prays , curses : " O sweet Benedick ! God give me patience ! "
You must away to court , sir , presently . A dozen captains stay at door for you .
Sir , are not you my father ?
My master is grown quarrelsome . I should knock you first , And then I know after who comes by the worst .
The taper burneth in your closet , sir . Searching the window for a flint , I found This paper , thus sealed up , and I am sure It did not lie there when I went to bed .
Hang , cur ! Hang , you whoreson insolent noisemaker ! We are less afraid to be drowned than thou art .
Why , thou sayst well . I do now remember a saying : " The fool doth think he is wise , but the wise man knows himself to be a fool . " The heathen philosopher , when he had a desire to eat a grape , would open his lips when he put it into his mouth , meaning thereby that grapes were made to eat and lips to open . You do love this maid ?
I will , my lord . I pray you , pardon me .
My dear Othello !
Oh , treble woe Fall ten times treble on that cursed head , Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense Deprived thee of ! Hold off the earth awhile Till I have caught her once more in mine arms .
Here , at thy hand . Be bold , and take thy stand .
Teach not thy lip such scorn , for it were made For kissing , lady , not for such contempt . If thy revengeful heart cannot forgive , Lo , here I lend thee this sharp - pointed sword , Which if thou please to hide in this true breast And let the soul forth that adoreth thee , I lay it naked to the deadly stroke And humbly beg the death upon my knee .
Oh , misery !
Look how he laughs already !
So please you --
Out of my sight !
I see , sir , you are eaten up with passion . I do repent me that I put it to you . You would be satisfied ?
Then with the losers let it sympathize , For nothing can seem foul to those that win .
Come , come , away .
We 'll beat ' em into bench - holes . I have yet Room for six scotches more .
He 's a soldier , and for one to say a soldier lies , ' tis stabbing .
Ay , those attires are best . But , gentle Nurse , I pray thee , leave me to myself tonight , For I have need of many orisons To move the heavens to smile upon my state , Which , well thou know'st , is cross and full of sin .
Let me entreat you .
Speak low if you speak love .
Tell not me . When the butt is out , we will drink water . Not a drop before . Therefore bear up and board ' em . --Servant - monster , drink to me .
They durst not do ' t . They could not , would not do ' t . ' Tis worse than murder To do upon respect such violent outrage . Resolve me with all modest haste which way Thou mightst deserve or they impose this usage , Coming from us .
Why , she 's neither fish nor flesh ; a man knows not where to have her .
Is this the king we sent to for his ransom ?
Me well -- which is the prescript praise and perfection of a good and particular mistress .
What man is that ?
He would have deserved it . Sixpence a day in Pyramus , or nothing .
To view the sick and feeble parts of France . And let us do it with no show of fear , No , with no more than if we heard that England Were busied with a Whitsun morris-dance . For , my good liege , she is so idly kinged , Her scepter so fantastically borne By a vain , giddy , shallow , humorous youth , That fear attends her not . My most redoubted father , It is most meet we arm us ' gainst the foe , For peace itself should not so dull a kingdom , Though war nor no known quarrel were in question , But that defenses , musters , preparations , Should be maintained , assembled , and collected , As were a war in expectation . Therefore I say ' tis meet we all go forth
Richmond ! When last I was at Exeter , The mayor in courtesy showed me the castle And called it Rougemont , at which name I started , Because a bard of Ireland told me once I should not live long after I saw Richmond .
A fair name . Wast born i ' th ' forest here ?
O , I do not like that paying back . ' Tis a double labor .
Come not in here , nuncle . Here 's a spirit . Help me , help me !
He 's a good fellow , I can tell you that . He 'll strike , and quickly too . He 's dead and rotten .
Did Cicero say anything ?
Cleopatra --
I make not , but foresee .
Is ' t known who did this more than bloody deed ?
Hath the Prince John a full commission , In very ample virtue of his father , To hear and absolutely to determine Of what conditions we shall stand upon ?
Marry , do I , sir , and I came to acquaint you with a matter . I am given , sir , secretly to understand that your younger brother Orlando hath a disposition to come in disguised against me to try a fall . Tomorrow , sir , I wrestle for my credit , and he that escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him well . Your brother is but young and tender , and , for your love I would be loath to foil him , as I must for my own honor if he come in . Therefore , out of my love to you , I came hither to acquaint you withal , that either you might stay him from his intendment or brook such disgrace well as he shall run into , in that it is a thing of his own search and altogether against my will .
We 'll give them present audience . Go , and bring them .
My lord , he 's going to his mother 's closet . Behind the arras I 'll convey myself To hear the process . I 'll warrant she 'll tax him home . And , as you said ' Tis meet that some more audience than a mother -- Since nature makes them partial -- should o'erhear The speech , of vantage . Fare you well , my liege . I 'll call upon you ere you go to bed And tell you what I know .
To thine own peace . If he be now returned , As checking at his voyage , and that he means No more to undertake it , I will work him To an exploit , now ripe in my devise , Under the which he shall not choose but fall . And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe , But even his mother shall uncharge the practice And call it accident .
Your husband being troubled with a shrew Measures my husband 's sorrow by his woe . And now you know my meaning .
Sirrah , come hither : ' tis no time to jest , And therefore frame your manners to the time . Your fellow Tranio here , to save my life , Puts my apparel and my countenance on , And I for my escape have put on his ; For in a quarrel since I came ashore I killed a man and fear I was descried . Wait you on him , I charge you , as becomes , While I make way from hence to save my life . You understand me ?
A lean cheek , which you have not ; a blue eye and sunken , which you have not ; an unquestionable spirit , which you have not ; a beard neglected , which you have not -- but I pardon you for that , for simply your having in beard is a younger brother 's revenue . Then your hose should be ungartered , your bonnet unbanded , your sleeve unbuttoned , your shoe untied , and everything about you demonstrating a careless desolation . But you are no such man . You are rather point - device in your accouterments , as loving yourself than seeming the lover of any other .
A love song , a love song .
" Accommodated . " It comes of accommodo . Very good , a good phrase .
I warrant it will .
Approach the chamber , and destroy your sight With a new Gorgon . Do not bid me speak . See , and then speak yourselves .
That beats upon the high shore of this world . No , not all these , thrice - gorgeous ceremony , Not all these , laid in bed majestical , Can sleep so soundly as the wretched slave , Who , with a body filled and vacant mind , Gets him to rest , crammed with distressful bread ; Never sees horrid night , the child of hell , But , like a lackey , from the rise to set Sweats in the eye of Phoebus , and all night Sleeps in Elysium ; next day after dawn , Doth rise and help Hyperion to his horse , And follows so the ever - running year With profitable labor to his grave . And , but for ceremony , such a wretch , Winding up days with toil and nights with sleep , Had the forehand and vantage of a king . The slave , a member of the country 's peace , Enjoys it , but in gross brain little wots What watch the king keeps to maintain the peace , Whose hours the peasant best advantages .
Is ' t so , indeed .
I pray you , sir , then set your knighthood and our soldiership aside , and give me leave to tell you , you lie in your throat if you say I am any other than an honest man .
Will ' t please your Grace to go along with us ?
But as well ? Then you are mad indeed , if you be no better in your wits than a fool .
God 's benison go with you and with those That would make good of bad and friends of foes .
A spirit , a spirit . He says his name 's Poor Tom .
Whereby hangs a tale , sir ?
I see you do not mean to part with her , Or else you like not of my company .
The messengers from our sister and the king .
No , his mouth is stopped . Honest Iago Hath ta'en order for ' t .
Fool , I 'll requite it in the highest degree . I prithee , be gone .
Is it possible disdain should die while she hath such meet food to feed it as Signor Benedick ? Courtesy itself must convert to disdain if you come in her presence .
Go , hide thee behind the arras . The rest walk up above . -- Now , my masters , for a true face and good conscience .
Nay , I care not for their names . They owe me nothing . Will you sing ?
According to his virtue let us use him , With all respect and rites of burial . Within my tent his bones tonight shall lie Most like a soldier , ordered honorably . So call the field to rest , and let 's away To part the glories of this happy day .
Now , sir , what is your text ?
No , faith , I 'll not stay a jot longer .
I 'll teach you how to flow .
Mort de ma vie , all is confounded , all ! Reproach and everlasting shame Sits mocking in our plumes .
Under a compelling occasion , let women die . It were pity to cast them away for nothing , though between them and a great cause they should be esteemed nothing . Cleopatra , catching but the least noise of this , dies instantly . I have seen her die twenty times upon far poorer moment . I do think there is mettle in death , which commits some loving act upon her , she hath such a celerity in dying .
keep Prince Harry in continual laughter the wearing out of six fashions , which is four terms , or two actions , and a ' shall laugh without intervallums . O , it is much that a lie with a slight oath and a jest with a sad brow will do with a fellow that never had the ache in his shoulders . O , you shall see him laugh till his face be like a wet cloak ill laid up .
I met the duke yesterday and had much question with him . He asked me of what parentage I was . I told him , of as good as he . So he laughed and let me go . But what talk we of fathers when there is such a man as Orlando ?
Happily met , my lady and my wife .
It fits when such a villain is a guest . I 'll not endure him .
Close by , my master .
Some of your function , mistress , Leave procreants alone and shut the door . Cough or cry " hem " if any body come . Your mystery , your mystery ! Nay , dispatch !
O , I have passed a miserable night , So full of ugly dreams , of ugly sights , That , as I am a Christian faithful man , I would not spend another such a night Though ' twere to buy a world of happy days , So full of dismal terror was the time .
Indeed he is not fit .
The power of Caesar , and His power unto Octavia .
A plague upon you all ! Give me my horse , you rogues . Give me my horse and be hanged !
No more dams I 'll make for fish , Nor fetch in firing At requiring , Nor scrape trencher , nor wash dish . ' Ban , ' Ban , Ca-caliban Has a new master . Get a new man . Freedom , high - day , high - day , freedom , freedom , high - day , freedom !
O me , what hast thou done ?
And down goes all before them . Still be kind And eke out our performance with your mind .
Peace , ho !
You may go to the devil 's dam ! Your gifts are so good here 's none will hold you . --Their love is not so great , Hortensio , but we may blow our nails together and fast it fairly out . Our cake 's dough on both sides . Farewell . Yet for the love I bear my sweet Bianca , if I can by any means light on a fit man to teach her that wherein she delights , I will wish him to her father .
These be the Christian husbands . I have a daughter . Would any of the stock of Barabbas Had been her husband rather than a Christian ! -- We trifle time . I pray thee , pursue sentence .
What stay had we but Clarence ? And he 's gone .
Dieu vous garde , monsieur .
Post speedily to my lord your husband . Show him this letter . The army of France is landed . --Seek out the traitor Gloucester .
Hail !
He is my father , sir , and sooth to say , In count'nance somewhat doth resemble you .
His breeding , sir , hath been at my charge . I have so often blushed to acknowledge him that now I am brazed to it .
Here , sir , a ring she bid me give you , sir . Hie you , make haste , for it grows very late .
Commend me to Lord William . Tell him , Catesby , His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries Tomorrow are let blood at Pomfret castle , And bid my lord , for joy of this good news , Give mistress Shore one gentle kiss the more .
Tybalt is gone , and Romeo banished . Romeo that killed him -- he is banished .
I will be here again , even with a thought .
He came too late . The ship was under sail . But there the Duke was given to understand That in a gondola were seen together Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica . Besides , Antonio certified the Duke They were not with Bassanio in his ship .
Wilt thou provoke me ? Then have at thee , boy !
There sleeps Titania sometime of the night , Lulled in these flowers with dances and delight . And there the snake throws her enameled skin , Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in . And with the juice of this I 'll streak her eyes And make her full of hateful fantasies . Take thou some of it and seek through this grove : A sweet Athenian lady is in love With a disdainful youth . Anoint his eyes . But do it when the next thing he espies May be the lady . Thou shalt know the man By the Athenian garments he hath on . Effect it with some care , that he may prove More fond on her than she upon her love . And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow .
Sir Richard Ratcliffe , let me tell thee this : Today shalt thou behold a subject die For truth , for duty , and for loyalty .
This is his uncle' s teaching . This is Worcester , Malevolent to you in all aspects , Which makes him prune himself , and bristle up The crest of youth against your dignity .
O fortune , fortune ! All men call thee fickle . If thou art fickle , what dost thou with him That is renowned for faith ? Be fickle , fortune , For then , I hope , thou wilt not keep him long , But send him back .
Tell us the manner of it , gentle Casca .
How happy some o'er other some can be ! Through Athens I am thought as fair as she . But what of that ? Demetrius thinks not so . He will not know what all but he do know . And as he errs , doting on Hermia 's eyes , So I , admiring of his qualities . Things base and vile , holding no quantity , Love can transpose to form and dignity . Love looks not with the eyes but with the mind . And therefore is winged Cupid painted blind . Nor hath Love 's mind of any judgment taste -- Wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste . And therefore is Love said to be a child , Because in choice he is so oft beguiled . As waggish boys in game themselves forswear , So the boy Love is perjured everywhere . For ere Demetrius looked on Hermia 's eyne , He hailed down oaths that he was only mine .
" De arme , " madame .
I have no great devotion to the deed And yet he hath given me satisfying reasons . ' Tis but a man gone . Forth , my sword : he dies .
You are a merry man , sir . Fare you well .
If that the soldier strike him , as I judge By his blunt bearing he will keep his word , Some sudden mischief may arise of it , For I do know Fluellen valiant And , touched with choler , hot as gunpowder , And quickly will return an injury . Follow , and see there be no harm between them . --Go you with me , uncle of Exeter .
The river hath thrice flowed , no ebb between , And the old folk , time 's doting chronicles , Say it did so a little time before That our great - grandsire , Edward , sicked and died .
Our course will seem too bloody , Caius Cassius , To cut the head off and then hack the limbs , Like wrath in death and envy afterwards , For Antony is but a limb of Caesar . Let us be sacrificers but not butchers , Caius . We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar , And in the spirit of men there is no blood . Oh , that we then could come by Caesar 's spirit And not dismember Caesar ! But , alas , Caesar must bleed for it . And , gentle friends , Let 's kill him boldly but not wrathfully . Let 's carve him as a dish fit for the gods , Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds . And let our hearts , as subtle masters do , Stir up their servants to an act of rage And after seem to chide ' em . This shall make Our purpose necessary and not envious , Which so appearing to the common eyes , We shall be called purgers , not murderers . And for Mark Antony , think not of him , For he can do no more than Caesar 's arm When Caesar 's head is off .
Sir , all this service Have I done since I went .
I know she is an irksome brawling scold . If that be all , masters , I hear no harm .
That 's a lie in thy throat . --I charge you in his Majesty 's name , apprehend him . He 's a friend of the Duke Alencon 's .
Hortensio , peace . Thou know 'st not gold 's effect . Tell me her father 's name , and ' tis enough ; For I will board her , though she chide as loud As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack .
I know not what to say , but give me your hands . God send you joy , Petruchio . ' Tis a match .
I humbly thank your ladyship .
Come hither , Proculeius . Go and say We purpose her no shame . Give her what comforts The quality of her passion shall require , Lest , in her greatness , by some mortal stroke She do defeat us , for her life in Rome Would be eternal in our triumph . Go , And with your speediest bring us what she says And how you find of her .
I pray you , jest , sir , as you sit at dinner . I from my mistress come to you in post ; If I return , I shall be post indeed , For she will scour your fault upon my pate . Methinks your maw , like mine , should be your clock , And strike you home without a messenger .
But I hear no ; they say my son of York Has almost overta'en him in his growth .
Why , every day , tomorrow . Come , go in . I 'll show thee some attires , and have thy counsel Which is the best to furnish me tomorrow .
Sir , Ancient Pistol 's below and would speak with you .
Come hither , you rogue ! What , have you forgot me ?
No more of drowning , do you hear ?
I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy - headed monster . A most scurvy monster . I could find in my heart to beat him --
See , see , our honored hostess ! The love that follows us sometime is our trouble , Which still we thank as love . Herein I teach you How you shall bid God ' ild us for your pains , And thank us for your trouble .
Having been three months married to her , sitting in my state --
You do extend These thoughts of horror further than you shall Find cause in Caesar .
Because my name is George .
No , faith , die by attorney . The poor world is almost six thousand years old , and in all this time there was not any man died in his own person , videlicet , in a love cause . Troilus had his brains dashed out with a Grecian club , yet he did what he could to die before , and he is one of the patterns of love . Leander , he would have lived many a fair year though Hero had turned nun if it had not been for a hot midsummer night , for , good youth , he went but forth to wash him in the Hellespont and , being taken with the cramp , was drowned ; and the foolish chroniclers of that age found it was Hero of Sestos . But these are all lies . Men have died from time to time , and worms have eaten them , but not for love .
By the Mass , I was called anything , and I would have done anything indeed too , and roundly too . There was I , and little John Doit of Staffordshire , and black George Barnes , and Francis Pickbone , and Will Squele , a Cotswold man . You had not four such swinge-bucklers in all the Inns o ' Court
I stumbled when I saw . Full oft ' tis seen , Our means secure us and our mere defects Prove our commodities . O dear son Edgar , The food of thy abused father 's wrath , Might I but live to see thee in my touch , I 'd say I had eyes again !
Of thirty sail . And now they do re - stem Their backward course , bearing with frank appearance Their purposes toward Cyprus . Signior Montano , Your trusty and most valiant servitor , With his free duty recommends you thus , And prays you to believe him .
Who 's there ? What is ' t you seek ?
Les doigts ? Ma foi , j' oublie les doigts ; mais je me souviendrai . Les doigts ? Je pense qu' ils sont appeles " de fingres " ; oui , " de fingres . "
Caesar did write for him to come to Rome .
Now , as thou lovest me , let me see his letter .
Or image of that horror ?
I am assured , if I be measured rightly , Your Majesty hath no just cause to hate me .
What secret hath held you here that you followed not to Leonato 's ?
Foolery , sir , does walk about the orb like the sun . It shines everywhere . I would be sorry , sir , but the fool should be as oft with your master as with my mistress : I think I saw your wisdom there .
No , we 'll reason with him .
What men ?
Sick of a calm , yea , good faith .
Thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly .
Now , good sir , what are you ?
Let it be who it is . For Romans now Have thews and limbs like to their ancestors , But -- woe the while ! -- our fathers ' minds are dead , And we are governed with our mothers ' spirits . Our yoke and sufferance show us womanish .
Good fool , help me to some light and some paper . I tell thee , I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria .
By the kind gods , ' tis most ignobly done To pluck me by the beard .
Yea , and so used it that were it not here apparent that thou art heir apparent --But I prithee , sweet wag , shall there be gallows standing in England when thou art king ? And resolution thus fubbed as it is with the rusty curb of old father Antic the law ? Do not thou , when thou art king , hang a thief .
Be plain , good son , and homely in thy drift . Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift .
So hath my lord dared him to single fight .
He hath no friends but who are friends for fear . Which in his dearest need will fly from him .
The young Prince hath misled me . I am the fellow with the great belly , and he my dog .
You speak this to fetch me in , my lord .
You strike my people , and your disordered rabble Make servants of their betters .
I do , I will .
He , sir , that must marry this woman . Therefore , you clown , abandon-- which is , in the vulgar , " leave " -- the society -- which in the boorish is " company " -- of this female -- which in the common is " woman " ; which together is , abandon the society of this female , or , clown , thou perishest ; or , to thy better understanding , diest ; or , to wit , I kill thee , make thee away , translate thy life into death , thy liberty into bondage . I will deal in poison with thee , or in bastinado , or in steel . I will bandy with thee in faction . I will o'errun thee with policy . I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways . Therefore tremble and depart .
The passages of alleys , creeks , and narrow lands ; A hound that runs counter and yet draws dryfoot well , One that before the judgment carries poor souls to hell .
Be merciful , great duke , to men of mold . Abate thy rage , abate thy manly rage , abate thy rage , great duke . Good bawcock , ' bate thy rage . Use lenity , sweet chuck .
I wonder if Titania be awaked . Then , what it was that next came in her eye , Which she must dote on in extremity .
My prayers , minx ?
Is thy name Colevile ?
Then you perceive the body of our kingdom How foul it is , what rank diseases grow And with what danger near the heart of it .
Show .
Alack , poor gentleman !
Villain , thou liest ; for even her very words Didst thou deliver to me on the mart .
Weaving spiders , come not here . Hence , you long-legged spinners , hence !
My lord , I do not know . But truly , I do fear it .
Let the great gods That keep this dreadful pudder o'er our heads Find out their enemies now . Tremble , thou wretch That hast within thee undivulged crimes Unwhipped of justice . Hide thee , thou bloody hand , Thou perjured , and thou simular man of virtue
I thank you most for him .
Did this in Caesar seem ambitious ? When that the poor have cried , Caesar hath wept . Ambition should be made of sterner stuff . Yet Brutus says he was ambitious , And Brutus is an honorable man . You all did see that on the Lupercal I thrice presented him a kingly crown , Which he did thrice refuse . Was this ambition ? Yet Brutus says he was ambitious , And , sure , he is an honorable man . I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke , But here I am to speak what I do know . You all did love him once , not without cause . What cause withholds you then to mourn for him ? O judgment ! Thou art fled to brutish beasts , And men have lost their reason . Bear with me . My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar , And I must pause till it come back to me .
Farewell , ancient lady . Farewell , lady , lady , lady .
Perchance even there where I did find my doubts . Why in that rawness left you wife and child , Those precious motives , those strong knots of love , Without leave - taking ? I pray you , Let not my jealousies be your dishonors , But mine own safeties . You may be rightly just , Whatever I shall think .
I have another weapon in this chamber , It was a sword of Spain , the ice - brook 's temper . Oh , here it is . Uncle , I must come forth .
A sailor 's wife had chestnuts in her lap , And munched , and munched , and munched . " Give me , " quoth I. " Aroint thee , witch ! " the rump - fed runnion cries . Her husband 's to Aleppo gone , master o ' th ' Tiger ; But in a sieve I 'll thither sail , And like a rat without a tail , I 'll do , I 'll do , and I 'll do .
Alive in triumph -- and Mercutio slain ! Away to heaven , respective lenity , And fire - eyed fury be my conduct now . Now , Tybalt , take the " villain " back again That late thou gavest me , for Mercutio 's soul Is but a little way above our heads , Staying for thine to keep him company . Either thou or I , or both , must go with him .
No , sir . I do not bite my thumb at you , sir , but I bite my thumb , sir .
That Herod 's head I 'll have ! But how ? When Antony is gone , Through whom I might command it ? Come thou near .
The sun will not be seen today . The sky doth frown and lour upon our army . I would these dewy tears were from the ground . Not shine today ? Why , what is that to me More than to Richmond , for the selfsame heaven That frowns on me looks sadly upon him .
Or else misgraffed in respect of years --
He 's mad that trusts in the tameness of a wolf , a horse 's health , a boy 's love , or a whore 's oath .
I cannot kiss , that is the humor of it . But adieu .
This is the air , that is the glorious sun . This pearl she gave me , I do feel ' t and see ' t , And though ' tis wonder that enwraps me thus , Yet ' tis not madness . Where 's Antonio , then ? I could not find him at the Elephant . Yet there he was , and there I found this credit , That he did range the town to seek me out . His counsel now might do me golden service . For though my soul disputes well with my sense That this may be some error , but no madness , Yet doth this accident and flood of fortune So far exceed all instance , all discourse , That I am ready to distrust mine eyes And wrangle with my reason that persuades me To any other trust but that I am mad -- Or else the lady 's mad . Yet if ' twere so , She could not sway her house , command her followers , Take and give back affairs and their dispatch With such a smooth , discreet , and stable bearing As I perceive she does . There 's something in ' t That is deceivable . But here the lady comes .
Helen , it is not so .
You shall outlive the lady whom you serve .
Let me alone .
He hath bought a pair of cast lips of Diana . A nun of winter 's sisterhood kisses not more religiously . The very ice of chastity is in them .
Ready .
Groan ! Why , no . But sadly , tell me who .
Most sure , the goddess On whom these airs attend ! --Vouchsafe my prayer May know if you remain upon this island , And that you will some good instruction give How I may bear me here . My prime request , Which I do last pronounce , is --O you wonder ! -- If you be maid or no .
They say he cried out of sack .
My sovereign lord , cheer up yourself , look up .
Will ' t please your Lordship drink a cup of sack ?
Indeed , neighbor , he comes too short of you .
Well then , sustain me . Oh !
Nay , an you be so tardy , come no more in my sight . I had as lief be wooed of a snail .
Oh , there has been much throwing about of brains .
For doting , not for loving , pupil mine .
He is welcome too .
O excellent device -- and make a sop of him .
As I am a gentleman !
Get me a taper in my study , Lucius . When it is lighted , come and call me here .
Let 's tonight Be bounteous at our meal .
Dowlas , filthy dowlas . I have given them away to bakers ' wives ; they have made bolters of them .
Macduff , this noble passion , Child of integrity , hath from my soul Wiped the black scruples , reconciled my thoughts To thy good truth and honor . Devilish Macbeth By many of these trains hath sought to win me Into his power , and modest wisdom plucks me From overcredulous haste . But God above Deal between thee and me , for even now I put myself to thy direction and Unspeak mine own detraction , here abjure The taints and blames I laid upon myself , For strangers to my nature . I am yet Unknown to woman , never was forsworn , Scarcely have coveted what was mine own , At no time broke my faith , would not betray The devil to his fellow , and delight No less in truth than life . My first false speaking Was this upon myself . What I am truly , Is thine and my poor country 's to command .
' Twere to consider too curiously , to consider so .
Most absolute lord , My mistress Cleopatra sent me to thee .
To bait fish withal . If it will feed nothing else , it will feed my revenge . He hath disgraced me and hindered me half a million , laughed at my losses , mocked at my gains , scorned my nation , thwarted my bargains , cooled my friends , heated mine enemies -- and what 's his reason ? I am a Jew . Hath not a Jew eyes ? Hath not a Jew hands , organs , dimensions , senses , affections , passions ? Fed with the same food , hurt with the same weapons , subject to the same diseases , healed by the same means , warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer as a Christian is ? If you prick us , do we not bleed ? If you tickle us , do we not laugh ? If you poison us , do we not die ? And if you wrong us , shall we not revenge ? If we are like you in the rest , we will resemble you in that . If a Jew wrong a Christian , what is his humility ? Revenge . If a Christian wrong a Jew , what should his sufferance be by Christian example ? Why , revenge . The villainy you teach me I will execute -- and it shall go hard but I will better the instruction .
Let me beseech your grace not to do so . His fault is much , and the good king his master Will check him for ' t . Your purposed low correction Is such as basest and contemned 'st wretches For pilferings and most common trespasses Are punished with .
Cross - gartered ?
You see this chase is hotly followed , friends .
Strengthen your patience in our last night 's speech . We 'll put the matter to the present push . -- Good Gertrude , set some watch over your son . -- This grave shall have a living monument . An hour of quiet shortly shall we see . Till then in patience our proceeding be .
Therefore , for fear of the worst , I pray thee , set a deep glass of rhenish wine on the contrary casket , for if the devil be within and that temptation without , I know he will choose it . I will do any thing , Nerissa , ere I 'll be married to a sponge .
And so am I for no woman .
I mean the fashion .
Is he well shipped ?
It is so . Are there balance here to weigh The flesh ?
I 'll back to the duke of Gloucester and tell him so .
Diminished to her cock , her cock a buoy Almost too small for sight . The murmuring surge That on th ' unnumbered idle pebbles chafes Cannot be heard so high . I 'll look no more Lest my brain turn and the deficient sight Topple down headlong .
Thou wast born of woman . But swords I smile at , weapons laugh to scorn , Brandished by man that 's of a woman born .
" Horatio , When thou shalt have overlooked this , give these fellows some means to the king . They have letters for him . Ere we were two days old at sea , a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us chase . Finding ourselves too slow of sail , we put on a compelled valor , and in the grapple I boarded them . On the instant , they got clear of our ship , so I alone became their prisoner . They have dealt with me like thieves of mercy , but they knew what they did ; I am to do a good turn for them .
Go , write it in a martial hand . Be curst and brief . It is no matter how witty , so it be eloquent and full of invention . Taunt him with the license of ink . If thou " thou " - est him some thrice , it shall not be amiss ; and as many lies as will lie in thy sheet of paper , although the sheet were big enough for the bed of Ware in England , set ' em down . Go , about it . Let there be gall enough in thy ink , though thou write with a goose - pen , no matter . About it .
Thy evil spirit , Brutus .
If it be so , sir , that you are the man Must stead us all , and me amongst the rest , And if you break the ice and do this feat , Achieve the elder , set the younger free For our access , whose hap shall be to have her Will not so graceless be to be ingrate .
Then plain and right must my possession be , Which I with more than with a common pain ' Gainst all the world will rightfully maintain .
O heat , dry up my brains ! Tears seven times salt , Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye ! By heaven , thy madness shall be paid by weight , Till our scale turn the beam . O rose of May , Dear maid , kind sister , sweet Ophelia ! O heavens , is ' t possible a young maid 's wits Should be as mortal as an old man 's life ? Nature is fine in love , and where ' tis fine , It sends some precious instance of itself After the thing it loves .
Good Master Mustardseed , I know your patience well . That same cowardly , giantlike ox - beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house . I promise you your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now . I desire you of more acquaintance , good Master Mustardseed .
Oh , he is gone indeed .
Caesar and he are greater friends than ever .
Nor would I there reside , To put my father in impatient thoughts By being in his eye . Most gracious Duke , To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear And let me find a charter in your voice , T ' assist my simpleness .
I never looked for better at his hands After he once fell in with Mistress Shore . Yet had we not determined he should die Until your Lordship came to see his end ( Which now the loving haste of these our friends , Something against our meaning , have prevented ) , Because , my lord , I would have had you heard The traitor speak , and timorously confess The manner and the purpose of his treasons , That you might well have signified the same Unto the citizens , who haply may Misconstrue us in him , and wail his death .
O my dear father , restoration hang Thy medicine on my lips , and let this kiss Repair those violent harms that my two sisters Have in thy reverence made !
Marry , I prithee do , to make sport withal , but love no man in good earnest , nor no further in sport neither than with safety of a pure blush thou mayst in honor come off again .
Good my lord , You have begot me , bred me , loved me . I Return those duties back as are right fit --
Sir , He is with Caesar .
Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wronged Hero ?
And is the bride and bridegroom coming home ?
No , thou arrant knave . I would to God that I might die , that I might have thee hanged . Thou hast drawn my shoulder out of joint .
She cannot deny it .
I will discharge thee ere I go from thee . Bear me forthwith unto his creditor , And , knowing how the debt grows , I will pay it . -- Good Master Doctor , see him safe conveyed Home to my house . O most unhappy day !
But wherefore art not in thy shop today ? Why dost thou lead these men about the streets ?
My lord !
I could interpret between you and your love , if I could see the puppets dallying .
Truly , sir , the better for my foes and the worse for my friends .
I tell you what , Captain Gower . I do perceive he is not the man that he would gladly make show to the world he is . If I find a hole in his coat , I will tell him my mind .
What have we here ? A man or a fish ? Dead or alive ? A fish . He smells like a fish , a very ancient and fish - like smell , a kind of not - of - the - newest poor - john . A strange fish ! Were I in England now , as once I was , and had but this fish painted , not a holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver . There would this monster make a man . Any strange beast there makes a man . When they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar , they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian . Legged like a man and his fins like arms ! Warm , o ' my troth . I do now let loose my opinion , hold it no longer : this is no fish , but an islander that hath lately suffered by a thunderbolt .
By heaven , that should be my handkerchief !
What , in your own part , can you say to this ?
It is the very error of the moon , She comes more nearer earth than she was wont And makes men mad .
My words are dull . O , quicken them with thine !
Thy sister 's sister .
I 'll fight at sea .
What patch is made our porter ? My master stays in the street .
Pray you , tread softly , that the blind mole may not hear a foot fall . We now are near his cell .
But in them nature 's copy 's not eterne .
Was it so late , friend , ere you went to bed , That you do lie so late ?
And I must be from thence ! My wife killed too ?
Directly , I am going to Caesar 's funeral .
Where 's Peaseblossom ?
From Silvius , sir .
Well , go to , I will . But there 's no goodness in thy face -- if Antony Be free and healthful , so tart a favor To trumpet such good tidings ! If not well , Thou shouldst come like a Fury crowned with snakes , Not like a formal man .
Ay .
Thy mother was a piece of virtue and She said thou wast my daughter . And thy father Was Duke of Milan , and thou his only heir And princess no worse issued .
Not a word of me . All that I will tell you is that the duke hath dined . Get your apparel together , good strings to your beards , new ribbons to your pumps . Meet presently at the palace . Every man look o'er his part . For the short and the long is , our play is preferred . In any case , let Thisbe have clean linen . And let not him that plays the lion pair his nails , for they shall hang out for the lion 's claws . And most dear actors , eat no onions nor garlic , for we are to utter sweet breath . And I do not doubt but to hear them say , " It is a sweet comedy . " No more words . Away , go away !
Why , fare thee well . I will o'erlook thy paper .
Why , so I did , but looked for no reply . O , let me make the period to my curse !
Is this proceeding just and honorable ?
Give me your neaf , Monsieur Mustardseed . Pray you , leave your courtesy , good monsieur .
Ay , and a bold one , that dare look on that Which might appall the devil .
Such duty to the drunkard let him do With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy , And say , " What is ' t your Honor will command , Wherein your lady and your humble wife May show her duty and make known her love ? " And then with kind embracements , tempting kisses , And with declining head into his bosom , Bid him shed tears , as being overjoyed To see her noble lord restored to health , Who for this seven years hath esteemed him No better than a poor and loathsome beggar . And if the boy have not a woman 's gift To rain a shower of commanded tears , An onion will do well for such a shift , Which in a napkin being close conveyed Shall in despite enforce a watery eye . See this dispatched with all the haste thou canst : Anon I 'll give thee more instructions .
How but well , sir ? How but well ? It were impossible I should speed amiss .
What , thou speak 'st drowsily ? Poor knave , I blame thee not . Thou art o'erwatched . Call Claudio and some other of my men . I 'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent .
O ' the twelfth day of December --
And , good Master Corporal Captain , for my old dame 's sake , stand my friend . She has nobody to do anything about her when I am gone , and she is old and cannot help herself : You shall have forty , sir .
The devil speaks in him .
Forty let it be . My father and Glendower being both away , The powers of us may serve so great a day . Come , let us take a muster speedily . Doomsday is near . Die all , die merrily .
As plain as I see you now .
Amen . A man may , if he were of a fearful heart , stagger in this attempt , for here we have no temple but the wood , no assembly but horn - beasts . But what though ? Courage . As horns are odious , they are necessary . It is said , " Many a man knows no end of his goods . " Right : many a man has good horns and knows no end of them .
Sir Toby , I must be round with you . My lady bade me tell you , that , though she harbors you as her kinsman , she 's nothing allied to your disorders . If you can separate yourself and your misdemeanors , you are welcome to the house . If not , an it would please you to take leave of her , she is very willing to bid you farewell .
Sir , I never loved you much , but I ha ' praised ye When you have well deserved ten times as much As I have said you did .
But when they should endure the bloody spur , They fall their crests and , like deceitful jades , Sink in the trial . Comes his army on ?
I 'll pay thy pleasure then .
There 's a great spirit gone ! Thus did I desire it . What our contempts doth often hurl from us We wish it ours again . The present pleasure , By revolution lowering , does become The opposite of itself . She 's good , being gone . The hand could pluck her back that shoved her on . I must from this enchanting Queen break off . Ten thousand harms , more than the ills I know My idleness doth hatch . --How now , Enobarbus !
I shall take it , sir . We have used our throats in Egypt .
O Fate ! Take not away thy heavy hand ! Death is the fairest cover for her shame That may be wished for .
Go , good Lord Hastings , And ere they be dismissed , let them march by .
Dissembling harlot , thou art false in all , And art confederate with a damned pack To make a loathsome abject scorn of me . But with these nails I 'll pluck out these false eyes That would behold in me this shameful sport .
Tomorrow shall you know our mind at full .
Good Master Corporate Bardolph , stand my friend , and here 's four Harry ten - shillings in French crowns for you . In very truth , sir , I had as lief be hanged , sir , as go . And yet , for mine own part , sir , I do not care , but rather because I am unwilling , and , for mine own part , have a desire to stay with my friends . Else , sir , I did not care , for mine own part , so much .
Your brother the Bastard is fled from Messina . You have among you killed a sweet and innocent lady . For my Lord Lackbeard there , he and I shall meet , and till then peace be with him .
Put off that gown , Trinculo . By this hand , I 'll have that gown .
This thou shalt answer . I know thee , Roderigo .
Nay , then , I have an eye of you --If you love me , hold not off .
Thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there for the goose .
Ay , every inch a king . When I do stare , see how the subject quakes . I pardon that man 's life . What was thy cause ? Adultery ? Thou shalt not die . Die for adultery ? No. The wren goes to ' t , and the small gilded fly does lecher in my sight . Let copulation thrive , for Gloucester 's bastard son Was kinder to his father than my daughters got ' tween the lawful sheets . To ' t , luxury , pell-mell -- for I lack soldiers .
Not one to throw at a dog .
And the contrarious winds that held the King So long in his unlucky Irish wars That all in England did repute him dead -- And from this swarm of fair advantages You took occasion to be quickly wooed To gripe the general sway into your hand , Forget your oath to us at Doncaster ; And being fed by us , you used us so As that ungentle gull , the cuckoo 's bird , Useth the sparrow --did oppress our nest , Grew by our feeding to so great a bulk That even our love durst not come near your sight For fear of swallowing ; but with nimble wing We were enforced for safety sake to fly Out of sight and raise this present head , Whereby we stand opposed by such means As you yourself have forged against yourself By unkind usage , dangerous countenance , And violation of all faith and troth Sworn to us in your younger enterprise .
I mock you not , by heaven . Would you would bear your fortune like a man !
O all you host of heaven ! O earth ! What else ? And shall I couple hell ? Oh , fie ! Hold , hold , my heart , And you , my sinews , grow not instant old , But bear me stiffly up . Remember thee ! Ay , thou poor ghost , whiles memory holds a seat In this distracted globe . Remember thee ! Yea , from the table of my memory I 'll wipe away all trivial fond records , All saws of books , all forms , all pressures past That youth and observation copied there , And thy commandment all alone shall live Within the book and volume of my brain , Unmixed with baser matter . Yes , by heaven ! O most pernicious woman ! O villain , villain , smiling , damned villain ! My tables ! --Meet it is I set it down That one may smile , and smile , and be a villain . At least I 'm sure it may be so in Denmark . So , uncle , there you are . Now to my word .
Hem them away .
He said , sir , you should procure him better assurance than Bardolph . He would not take his band and yours . He liked not the security .
There is my hand , and let it feel your ear .
To me she speaks ; she moves me for her theme . What , was I married to her in my dream ? Or sleep I now and think I hear all this ? What error drives our eyes and ears amiss ? Until I know this sure uncertainty I 'll entertain the offered fallacy .
Sirrah , begone or talk not , I advise you .
That if you be honest and fair , your honesty should admit no discourse to your beauty .
The circumstance considered , good my lord , Whate'er Lord Harry Percy then had said To such a person and in such a place , At such a time , with all the rest retold , May reasonably die and never rise To do him wrong or any way impeach What then he said , so he unsay it now .
How hast thou lost thy breath ?
Sir , the Queen .
Charge me ! I scorn you , scurvy companion . What , you poor , base , rascally , cheating lack - linen mate ! Away , you mouldy rogue , away ! I am meat for your master .
It is a quarrel just and reasonable To be revenged on him that killed my husband .
It should seem then that Dobbin 's tail grows backward . I am sure he had more hair of his tail than I have of my face when I last saw him .
O my lord , my lord , Forgive my fearful sails ! I little thought You would have followed .
Believe me , lord , I think he cannot choose .
As many vouched rarities are .
Yea , art thou there ?
Live , Brutus ! Live , live !
No , my good lord . My friends are in the north .
For the love of God , a surgeon ! Send one presently to Sir Toby .
Nay , but hark you , Francis , for the sugar thou gavest me , ' twas a pennyworth , was ' t not ?
Shall I play my freedom at tray - trip , and become thy bondslave ?
Say it , Othello .
Though in the trade of war I have slain men , Yet do I hold it very stuff o ' th ' conscience To do no contrived murder . I lack iniquity Sometimes to do me service . Nine or ten times I had thought t ' have yerked him here under the ribs .
Calphurnia !
A dream itself is but a shadow .
How , poor ? Look upon his face . What call you rich ? Let them coin his nose . Let them coin his cheeks . I 'll not pay a denier . What , will you make a younker of me ? Shall I not take mine case in mine inn but I shall have my pocket picked ? I have lost a seal ring of my grandfather 's worth forty mark .
Am I in France ?
The poorest service is repaid with thanks , And so shall mine , before you touch the meat .
Thou art like one of those fellows that , when he enters the confines of a tavern , claps me his sword upon the table and says " God send me no need of thee ! " and , by the operation of the second cup , draws it on the drawer when indeed there is no need .
Let me have your hand .
Mine honesty and I begin to square . The loyalty well held to fools does make Our faith mere folly . Yet he that can endure To follow with allegiance a fall'n lord Does conquer him that did his master conquer And earns a place i ' th ' story .
You are a lover . Borrow Cupid 's wings And soar with them above a common bound .
You gentle Romans --
Why , there then !
By my troth , yes . I count it but time lost to hear such a foolish song . God be wi ' you , and God mend your voices . -- Come , Audrey .
And leave us , Publius , lest that the people , Rushing on us , should do your age some mischief .
Can you remember any of the principal evils that he laid to the charge of women ?
Most rightful judge !
Of Mantua .
What , now ?
I will tell her , sir , that you do protest , which , as I take it , is a gentlemanlike offer .
His speech sticks in my heart .
Let us take the law of our sides . Let them begin .
Not see him since ? Sir , sir , that cannot be . But were I not the better part made mercy , I should not seek an absent argument Of my revenge , thou present . But look to it : Find out thy brother , wheresoe'er he is . Seek him with candle . Bring him , dead or living , Within this twelvemonth or turn thou no more To seek a living in our territory . Thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine Worth seizure , do we seize into our hands Till thou canst quit thee by thy brother 's mouth Of what we think against thee .
Master Antipholus .
Nay , pray thee , come , Or , if thou wilt hold longer argument , Do it in notes .
She well instructs me .
Amen , with all my heart .
Farewell , farewell .
Now , my dearest Queen --
Pray you , sir , do you know of this matter ?
You cram these words into mine ears against The stomach of my sense . Would I had never Married my daughter there ! For , coming thence , My son is lost and , in my rate , she too , Who is so far from Italy removed I ne'er again shall see her . --O thou mine heir Of Naples and of Milan , what strange fish Hath made his meal on thee ?
Hold , then . Go home , be merry . Give consent To marry Paris . Wednesday is tomorrow . Tomorrow night look that thou lie alone . Let not the Nurse lie with thee in thy chamber . Take thou this vial , being then in bed , And this distilled liquor drink thou off , When presently through all thy veins shall run A cold and drowsy humor , for no pulse Shall keep his native progress , but surcease . No warmth , no breath shall testify thou livest . The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade To paly ashes , thy eyes ' windows fall Like death when he shuts up the day of life . Each part , deprived of supple government , Shall , stiff and stark and cold , appear like death . And in this borrowed likeness of shrunk death Thou shalt continue two and forty hours , And then awake as from a pleasant sleep . Now , when the bridegroom in the morning comes To rouse thee from thy bed , there art thou dead . Then , as the manner of our country is , In thy best robes uncovered on the bier Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie . In the meantime , against thou shalt awake , Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift , And hither shall he come , and he and I Will watch thy waking , and that very night Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua . And this shall free thee from this present shame , If no inconstant toy , nor womanish fear , Abate thy valor in the acting it .
Prithee , go in thyself . Seek thine own ease . This tempest will not give me leave to ponder On things would hurt me more . But I 'll go in . In , boy . Go first . You houseless poverty -- Nay , get thee in . I 'll pray , and then I 'll sleep .
Rub him about the temples .
That 's certain . I , for my part , knew the tailor that made the wings she flew withal .
Poins ! --Now shall we know if Gadshill have set a match . O , if men were to be saved by merit , what hole in hell were hot enough for him ? This is the most omnipotent villain that ever cried " Stand ! " to a true man .
No , no , my dream was lengthened after life . O , then began the tempest to my soul . I passed , methought , the melancholy flood , With that sour ferryman which poets write of , Unto the kingdom of perpetual night . The first that there did greet my stranger - soul Was my great father - in - law , renowned Warwick , Who spake aloud , " What scourge for perjury Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence ? " And so he vanished . Then came wand'ring by A shadow like an angel , with bright hair Dabbled in blood , and he shrieked out aloud
How now ? Are the horses ready ?
Wilt thou , O God , fly from such gentle lambs And throw them in the entrails of the wolf ? When didst thou sleep when such a deed was done ?
What said Popillius Lena ?
A pestilence on him for a mad rogue ! He poured a flagon of Rhenish on my head once . This same skull , sir , was Yorick 's skull , the king 's jester .
Why of thy thought , Iago ?
Thou liest , malignant thing ! Hast thou forgot The foul witch Sycorax , who with age and envy Was grown into a hoop ? Hast thou forgot her ?
My life I never held but as a pawn To wage against thy enemies , nor fear to lose it , Thy safety being motive .
Ay , if I be alive and your mind hold and your dinner worth the eating .
But I will never die .
Here comes Kent .
What shall we do ?
How now , how now , what 's the matter ?
How canst thou make me satisfaction ?
Master , it is no time to chide you now . Affection is not rated from the heart . If love have touched you , naught remains but so : Redime te captum quam queas minimo .
I am an ass , indeed ; you may prove it by my long ears . --I have served him from the hour of my nativity to this instant , and have nothing at his hands for my service but blows . When I am cold , he heats me with beating ; when I am warm , he cools me with beating . I am waked with it when I sleep , raised with it when I sit , driven out of doors with it when I go from home , welcomed home with it when I return . Nay , I bear it on my shoulders as a beggar wont her brat , and I think when he hath lamed me , I shall beg with it from door to door .
you shall comprehend all vagrom men ; you are to bid any man stand , in the Prince 's name .
Then be your eyes the witness of their evil . Look how I am bewitched ! Behold mine arm Is like a blasted sapling withered up ; And this is Edward 's wife , that monstrous witch , Consorted with that harlot , strumpet Shore , That by their witchcraft thus have marked me .
Keep up your bright swords , for the dew will rust them . Good signior , you shall more command with years Than with your weapons .
Where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark ?
I have heard Your grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify His rigorous course . But since he stands obdurate And that no lawful means can carry me Out of his envy 's reach , I do oppose My patience to his fury , and am armed To suffer with a quietness of spirit The very tyranny and rage of his .
What , with the case of eyes ?
Nurse ! Wife ! What , ho ? What , Nurse , I say !
Love news , in faith ?
No , by my troth , not so much as will serve to be prologue to an egg and butter .
In his tongue .
Thou , wretched boy , that didst consort him here Shalt with him hence .
And in assemblies too .
No , for then we should be colliers .
An honor ! Were not I thine only nurse , I would say thou hadst sucked wisdom from thy teat .
An old , an old instance , Beatrice , that lived in the lime of good neighbors . If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb ere he dies , he shall live no longer in monument than the bell rings and the widow weeps .
Pluck down forms , windows , anything .
If e' er your grace had speech with man so poor , Hear me one word .
Give me my principal , and let me go .
A Norman was ' t ?
Heavenly powers , restore him !
Now , good Metellus , go along by him . He loves me well , and I have given him reasons . Send him but hither and I 'll fashion him .
Why ,
My legs do better understand me , sir , than I understand what you mean by bidding me taste my legs .
Fie , thou dishonest Satan ! I call thee by the most modest terms , for I am one of those gentle ones that will use the devil himself with courtesy . Sayest thou that house is dark ?
I pray you , what is ' t o'clock ?
And you by land .
I say you are not .
Why then , God forgive me .
The noble Scot , Lord Douglas , when he saw The fortune of the day quite turned from him , The noble Percy slain , and all his men Upon the foot of fear , fled with the rest , And , falling from a hill , he was so bruised That the pursuers took him . At my tent The Douglas is , and I beseech your Grace I may dispose of him .
Nay , before God , Hal , if Percy be alive , thou gett 'st not my sword ; but take my pistol , if thou wilt .
That cannot be . His ring I do accept most thankfully . And so I pray you tell him . Furthermore , I pray you show my youth old Shylock 's house .
" Thou killest me like a rogue and a villain . "
And therefore ' tis called a sensible tale . And this cuff was but to knock at your ear and beseech list'ning . Now I begin : Imprimis , we came down a foul hill , my master riding behind my mistress --
Certain , men should be what they seem .
What if he had said " widower AEneas " too ? Good Lord , how you take it !
Nay , stay . Thou shouldst be honest .
I fear too early , for my mind misgives Some consequence yet hanging in the stars Shall bitterly begin his fearful date With this night 's revels , and expire the term Of a despised life closed in my breast By some vile forfeit of untimely death . But he that hath the steerage of my course , Direct my sail . On , lusty gentlemen .
How fares your grace ?
No , faith , lords and great men will not let me . If I had a monopoly out , they would have part on ' t . And ladies too -- they will not let me have all fool to myself ; they 'll be snatching . Give me an egg , nuncle , and I 'll give thee two crowns .
But soft , what noise ? Who calls on Hamlet ? Oh , here they come .
Go , get thee gone , thou false deluding slave , Beats him That feed 'st me with the very name of meat . Sorrow on thee and all the pack of you That triumph thus upon my misery . Go , get thee gone , I say .
Brother , good day . What means this armed guard That waits upon your Grace ?
Oh never was there queen So mightily betrayed ! Yet at the first I saw the treasons planted .
Enter , sir , the castle .
Tybalt , my cousin ! O my brother 's child ! O Prince ! O cousin ! Husband ! Oh , the blood is spilled Of my dear kinsman ! Prince , as thou art true , For blood of ours shed blood of Montague . O cousin , cousin !
Good dawning to thee , friend . Art of this house ?
I know your lady does not love her husband . I am sure of that . And at her late being here She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks To noble Edmund . I know you are of her bosom .
Hark ! He is arrived . March gently on to meet him .
Come hither , fellow .
Ay , if the fool could find it where it lies .
Say then my peace is made .
That 's as much as to say , the sweet youth 's in love .
Sir , I do know you , And dare upon the warrant of my note Commend a dear thing to you . There is division , Although as yet the face of it be covered With mutual cunning , ' twixt Albany and Cornwall , Who have -- as who have not that their great stars Throned and set high?- -servants , who seem no less , Which are to France the spies and speculations Intelligent of our state . What hath been seen , Either in snuffs and packings of the dukes , Or the hard rein which both of them hath borne Against the old kind king , or something deeper , Whereof perchance these are but furnishings -- But true it is . From France there comes a power Into this scattered kingdom , who already , Wise in our negligence , have secret feet In some of our best ports and are at point To show their open banner . Now to you . If on my credit you dare build so far To make your speed to Dover , you shall find Some that will thank you , making just report Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow The king hath cause to plain . I am a gentleman of blood and breeding , And from some knowledge and assurance offer This office to you .
What I have done my safety urged me to . And I embrace this fortune patiently , Since not to be avoided it falls on me .
How say you , then ? Would heart of man once think it ? But you 'll be secret ?
And how doth thy master , Bardolph ?
None . How chance the king comes with so small a train ?
But is there any else longs to see this broken music in his sides ? Is there yet another dotes upon rib - breaking ? Shall we see this wrestling , cousin ?
Go , Nurse . Go with her . We 'll to church tomorrow .
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large .
Do you pity him ? No , he deserves no pity . --Wilt thou love such a woman ? What , to make thee an instrument and play false strains upon thee ? Not to be endured . Well , go your way to her , for I see love hath made thee a tame snake , and say this to her : that if she love me , I charge her to love thee ; if she will not , I will never have her unless thou entreat for her . If you be a true lover , hence and not a word , for here comes more company .
My lord , entreat him by no means to stay .
I 'll send her to you presently , And I 'll devise a mean to draw the Moor Out of the way , that your converse and business May be more free .
I did say so . Look , where he comes . Not poppy nor mandragora Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world , Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owedst yesterday .
Scorn and defiance , slight regard , contempt , And anything that may not misbecome The mighty sender , doth he prize you at . Thus says my king : an if your father 's Highness Do not , in grant of all demands at large , Sweeten the bitter mock you sent his Majesty , He 'll call you to so hot an answer of it That caves and womby vaultages of France Shall chide your trespass and return your mock In second accent of his ordinance .
What hast thou found ?
For not being at court ? Your reason .
Here 's too much " out upon thee ! " I pray thee , let me in .
I do not doubt But that my noble master will appear Such as he is , full of regard and honor .
Truly , a peck of provender . I could munch your good dry oats . Methinks I have a great desire to a bottle of hay . Good hay , sweet hay , hath no fellow .
Well , this is the Forest of Arden .
Well met , Corporal Nym .
Nor is not , sure .
I like him not , nor stands it safe with us To let his madness range . Therefore prepare you . I your commission will forthwith dispatch , And he to England shall along with you . The terms of our estate may not endure Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow Out of his lunacies .
I am not in the mind but I were better to be married of him than of another , for he is not like to marry me well , and not being well married , it will be a good excuse for me hereafter to leave my wife .
I would have all well betwixt you .
Let her not walk i ' th ' sun . Conception is a blessing , but , as your daughter may conceive --Friend , look to ' t .
Let him demand his fill .
No , my lord .
The thoughts of people . She told her , while she kept it ' Twould make her amiable and subdue my father Entirely to her love , but if she lost it Or made gift of it , my father 's eye Should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt After new fancies . She , dying , gave it me And bid me , when my fate would have me wived , To give it her . I did so , and take heed on ' t , Make it a darling like your precious eye . To lose ' t or give ' t away were such perdition As nothing else could match .
Why , we shall make him mad indeed .
Thou wast the cause and most accursed effect .
Not here in presence .
Sir , I shall meet your wit in the career , an you charge it against me . I pray you , choose another subject .
An you part so , mistress , I would I might never draw sword again . Fair lady , do you think you have fools in hand ?
And yet I come not well .
God pardon sin ! Wast thou with Rosaline ?
How now , Oswald ? What , have you writ that letter to my sister ?
Ay , let her rot and perish and be damned tonight , for she shall not live . No , my heart is turned to stone . I strike it and it hurts my hand . Oh , the world hath not a sweeter creature , she might lie by an emperor 's side and command him tasks .
Faith , some certain dregs of conscience are yet within me .
As we were sharing , some six or seven fresh men set upon us .
' Scape being drunk for want of wine .
Well , Shylock , shall we be beholding to you ?
Good faith , a little one , not past a pint , As I am a soldier .
Where is it ? Taken from us it is . A hundred upon poor four of us .
No , faith , is ' t not , Kate , but thy speaking of my tongue , and I thine , most truly - falsely must needs be granted to be much at one . But , Kate , dost thou understand thus much English ? Canst thou love me ?
Dismayed not this our captains , Macbeth and Banquo ?
Sir , in Argier .
Asses are made to bear , and so are you .
Marry , I 'll teach you . Think yourself a baby That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay , Which are not sterling . Tender yourself more dearly , Or -- not to crack the wind of the poor phrase , Running it thus -- you 'll tender me a fool .
Hath he seen majesty ? Isis else defend , And serving you so long !
Yours , yours .
Doubt not , sir . I knew it for my bond .
You have , my lord . Would it might please your Grace , On our entreaties , to amend your fault .
You had musty victual , and he hath holp to eat it . He is a very valiant trencherman . He hath an excellent stomach .
And we 'll consign thereto . --Will you , fair sister , Go with the princes or stay here with us ?
Where is but a humor or a worm .
You may do then in time . Fare you well , sir .
Come , will you go with me ?
Go , girl . I cannot blame thee now to weep , For such an injury would vex a very saint , Much more a shrew of thy impatient humor .
They are , my lord , without the palace gate .
What manner o ' thing is your crocodile ?
Why , man , he doth bestride the narrow world Like a Colossus , and we petty men Walk under his huge legs and peep about To find ourselves dishonorable graves . Men at some time are masters of their fates . The fault , dear Brutus , is not in our stars But in ourselves , that we are underlings . Brutus and Caesar -- what should be in that " Caesar " ? Why should that name be sounded more than yours ? Write them together , yours is as fair a name . Sound them , it doth become the mouth as well . Weigh them , it is as heavy . Conjure with ' em ,
Sir , ' tis your brother Cassius at the door , Who doth desire to see you .
Why , sir , give the gods a thankful sacrifice . When it pleaseth their deities to take the wife of a man from him , it shows to man the tailors of the earth , comforting therein , that when old robes are worn out , there are members to make new . If there were no more women but Fulvia , then had you indeed a cut , and the case to be lamented . This grief is crowned with consolation . Your old smock brings forth a new petticoat , and indeed the tears live in an onion that should water this sorrow .
Is your man secret ? Did you ne'er hear say , " Two may keep counsel , putting one away " ?
By my life , this is my lady 's hand these be her very C' s , her U 's and her T 's and thus makes she her great P 's . It is , in contempt of question , her hand .
What is the matter ? How now , general ?
I mean , the Lord Protector .
I pray you and beseech you that you will .
Come , Balthasar , we 'll hear that song again .
Here comes Sir Toby halting . You shall hear more . But if he had not been in drink , he would have tickled you othergates than he did .
No abuse , Hal , o ' mine honor , no abuse .
Nay , I have done . Here comes the Emperor .
Who is it in the press that calls on me ? I hear a tongue , shriller than all the music , Cry " Caesar ! " --Speak . Caesar is turned to hear .
Nor I.
Signior ?
For love of God , forbear him .
Can I not say " I thank you " ? My better parts Are all thrown down , and that which here stands up Is but a quintain , a mere lifeless block .
Your husband is at hand . I hear his trumpet . We are no tell - tales , madam . Fear you not .
I thought thou hadst been resolute .
As I am a gentleman . Come . No more words of it .
We 'll make our leisures to attend on yours .
A good sharp fellow . I will send for him , and question him yourself .
Then hie you hence to Friar Lawrence 's cell . There stays a husband to make you a wife . Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks . They 'll be in scarlet straight at any news . Hie you to church . I must another way To fetch a ladder , by the which your love Must climb a bird 's nest soon when it is dark . I am the drudge and toil in your delight , But you shall bear the burden soon at night . Go . I 'll to dinner . Hie you to the cell .
Moon and stars ! Whip him . Were ' t twenty of the greatest tributaries That do acknowledge Caesar , should I find them So saucy with the hand of she here -- what 's her name Since she was Cleopatra ? Whip him , fellows , Till like a boy , you see him cringe his face And whine aloud for mercy . Take him hence .
Poor soul ! His eyes are red as fire with weeping .
And by despairing shalt thou stand excused For doing worthy vengeance on thyself That didst unworthy slaughter upon others .
Well , sir , I will . Have you the chain about you ?
I say " amen . "
So glad of this as they I cannot be , Who are surprised withal . But my rejoicing At nothing can be more . I 'll to my book , For yet ere supper - time must I perform Much business appertaining .
How many ages hence Shall this our lofty scene be acted over In states unborn and accents yet unknown !
Fare you well , my lord .
Nay , good lieutenant ! I pray you , sir , hold your hand .
